Sanju Gupta, Alex Henson,
Engineered nanocomposites through embedding of smaller “organic inorganic” nanoparticles in thermoplastic Poly(2-Vinylpyridine) polymer matrix,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 272,
2024,
111207,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2024.111207.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836824000180)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) are significant for modern and future applications owing to their multifunctionality promoted by morphology and tailored interfaces between the constituents. However, ‘forward’ engineered polymer (host) composites with smaller size nanoparticles (guest) providing desired properties remains challenging as they depend upon nanoparticles aggregation, size, shape, and loading (volume or weight) fraction. This study strategically designs and develops PNCs comprising thermoplastic poly (2-vinylpyridine) (P2VP) polymer matrix impregnated with spherical polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (N-POSS) nanoparticles (diameter ∼2–5 nm) and anisotropic planar nitrogenated graphene nanoribbons (GNR, strip width ∼5–10 nm) commensurate with polymer chain radius of gyration, Rg, (or segment length ∼1.5 nm) and comparable energy scales of electrostatic interaction and attractive hydrogen bonding. We investigated static and dynamic structure and thermophysical properties to correlate with interfacial regions and the results are compared with larger graphene oxide (GO, lateral dimension ∼100–200 nm) nanosheets and silica (SiO2, ∼25–50 nm) particles. While electron microscopy revealed nanoparticle distribution, the lattice bonding, conjugation length, and mechanical properties are determined from micro-Raman spectroscopy and atomic force microscopy, respectively. The differential scanning calorimetry provided a measure of glass transition temperature, Tg, with positive shift of ∼10–18 °C with nanoparticles loading indicating strength of structural relaxation/chain rigidity behavior and thermogravimetric analysis displayed increased thermal stability and conductivity (decreased interfacial resistance). We also measured temperature dependent dc electrical conductivity and dielectric relaxation spectroscopy gaining insights into percolation and dynamic interfacial layer. This study signified understanding of interactions and interfacial regions, key element to demystify the microscopic structure-property relationships.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Interfaces; Microstructure; Glass transition; Temperature dependent dynamics

Christine Heera Ahn, Guogao Zhang, Zhigang Suo,
Ductility of a nanocomposite of glassy and rubbery polymers,
Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids,
2024,
105760,
ISSN 0022-5096,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2024.105760.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022509624002266)
Abstract: A brittle glassy polymer can be made ductile by forming a nanocomposite with a rubbery polymer. This paper investigates a nanocomposite of poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) and poly(ethyl acrylate) (PEA). Pure PMMA is a brittle glass, pure PEA is a rubber, and a PEA-PMMA nanocomposite is ductile. We fabricate the nanocomposite by swelling PEA with MMA monomer, followed by polymerizing MMA. We prepare nanocomposites of various weight fractions of PMMA and measure their properties, including modulus, yield strength, fracture strain, fracture strength, work of fracture, and toughness. Whereas bulk PMMA fractures at a strain of ∼0.05 by localizing inelastic deformation in crazes, the PEA-PMMA nanocomposite can be stretched several times its original length with homogeneous deformation. The nanocomposite separates into a glassy phase and a rubbery phase. For a nanocomposite of 45% weight fraction of PMMA, the atomic force microscopy shows that the two phases are bicontinuous and the phase size is at ∼20 nanometers. For the nanocomposite to undergo large deformation, the continuous glassy phase must accommodate. Our experiments exclude the mechanism that the glassy phase in the nanocomposite breaks into small pieces. Rather, the glassy phase in the nanocomposite is itself ductile. We discuss the molecular picture of this ductility.
Keywords: Interpenetrating polymer network; Poly(methyl methacrylate); Poly(ethyl acrylate); Ductility

Ahmed Belhameid, Ángela Inmaculada López-Lorente, Adel Megriche, Rafael Lucena, Soledad Cárdenas,
Photocatalytic/sorption-self-cleaning activity of cellulose decorated with TiO2 and M@TiO2 (M=Au, Ag) polymeric nanocomposites,
Journal of Cleaner Production,
Volume 452,
2024,
142190,
ISSN 0959-6526,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2024.142190.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095965262401638X)
Abstract: Titanium oxide nanoparticles (TiO2 NPs) are a semiconductor material widely employed as photocatalysts for environmental remediation owing to its excellent properties. Nevertheless, collecting the nanomaterial once dispersed in the aqueous media is challenging, while the photocatalytic activity is limited mainly to the ultraviolet range of radiation. In this work, we have modified cellulose paper, a sustainable and green support, with a polymer nanocomposite comprising nylon-6 and different nanomaterials, i.e., anatase TiO2 nanoparticles (NPs) as well as TiO2 decorated with Ag and Au in form of NPs by means of a simple procedure. The immobilization of the nanocomposite on paper mediated the subsequent recovery of the substrate upon incubation. The presence of nylon-6 enables both the attachment of the NPs on the support as well as the isolation of the pollutant from the contaminated water due to the interactions with the target analyte, i.e., methyl orange (MO). Additionally, the presence of the mentioned polyamide within the substrate triggers the photocatalytic reaction under visible light radiation. The broadening in the range of the light towards the use of sunlight has been also evaluated via modification of the photocatalyst nanoparticles with noble metals such as silver and gold. The kinetic of degradation of MO upon sunlight exposure with the different polymeric nanocomposites followed a pseudo-first-order model, with k constant values of 0.070, 0.083 and 0.120 min−1 for TiO2, Ag@TiO2 and Au@TiO2 nanocomposites, respectively. The effect of the presence of the polymer on the substrate has been evaluated, observing an increase in the k constant upon addition of the polyamide from 0.036 to 0.069 min−1 for TiO2. The synergistic effect of sorption/degradation enables the regeneration of the substrates modified with the nanomaterials that can be reused several times, the relative standard deviation of k upon three subsequent photocatalytic cycles being in the range 15.7–37.7%.
Keywords: Titanium oxide; Cellulose; Nanocomposite; Photocatalysis; Gold; Silver

M.A. Morsi, G.M. Asnag, Awatef S. Assran, Reem Alwafi, A.E. Tarabiah, Naif Ahmed Alshehri, Ahmed N. Al-Hakimi, Abdu Saeed,
Reinforced PEO/Cs polymers blend with Al2O3/TiO2 hybrid nanofillers: Nanocomposites for optoelectronics and energy storage,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 88,
2024,
111554,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.111554.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24011393)
Abstract: This work focuses on the meticulous preparation and characterization of polyethylene oxide (PEO)/chitosan (Cs) polymer blends infused with aluminum oxide nanoparticles (Al2O3 NPs) and sol-gel synthesized titanium oxide nanoparticles (TiO2 NPs). Employing the casting method, the study delves into a comprehensive analysis of the structural, optical, electrical, and dielectric properties exhibited by the resulting PEO/Cs-Al2O3/TiO2 nanocomposites. Structural evaluations utilized transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR). UV–Vis spectra showed enhanced optical properties, with the indirect optical energy gap decreasing from 5.23 eV to 5.01 eV for blends with 2.4 wt% Al2O3/TiO2 NPs. The AC conductivity of the polymeric nanocomposites showed enhanced values compared with the pure blend. Additionally, dielectric permittivity and modulus exhibit tunability, presenting advantageous prospects with varying Al2O3/TiO2 NPs concentrations in the PEO/Cs blend. The Nyquist plots reveal distinctive features, including semicircular arcs at the low-frequency part and an inclined spike at the high-frequency part, with decreasing arc radius corresponding to increasing nanofiller contents. These observations are best fitted to two models of equivalent circuits. The engineered PEO/Cs-Al2O3/TiO2 nanocomposite capacitor showed enhanced storage capacity and controlled conductance characteristics. The findings of this study revealed that these nanocomposites hold promise as bandgap tuners, optical sensors, permittivity-tunable nanodielectrics, and novel host matrices for the development of solid polymer flexible electrolytes, thereby contributing to the next generation of energy storage and conversion devices with superior performance.
Keywords: PEO/Cs blend-Al2O3/TiO2 nanocomposite; XRD; Optical properties; Electrical properties; Energy storage

Eva Maria Richter, Gunnar Possart, Paul Steinmann, Sebastian Pfaller, Maximilian Ries,
Revealing the percolation–agglomeration transition in polymer nanocomposites via MD-informed continuum RVEs with elastoplastic interphases,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 281,
2024,
111477,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2024.111477.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836824002889)
Abstract: This contribution builds the concluding step of a multiscale approach to effectively capture the mechanical behavior of polymer nanocomposites (PNCs), in this case, silica-modified polystyrene. By introducing continuum-based representative volume elements (RVEs) that employ previously identified elastoplastic property gradients for the interphases surrounding the fillers, the effects of particle size, particle volume fraction, and agglomeration on the mechanical performance are investigated. Uniaxial tension tests are simulated with the respective finite-element RVEs, and stress–strain curves are derived. The elastic and plastic material properties of the RVE can then be extracted and analyzed quantitatively by fitting the stress–strain curves with a Voce-type elastoplasticity formulation. At small degrees of agglomeration, i.e., good particle dispersion, in combination with sufficiently large particle volume fraction, percolation bands form, leading to improved elastic and plastic properties. Higher degrees of agglomeration or particle clusters behave like large single particles, which has an adverse effect, i.e., the nanoscale size effect is thereby neutralized. Therefore, the precise MD-informed elastoplastic interphase representation of our RVEs enables the investigation of the transition from beneficial percolation to unfavorable agglomeration. Ultimately, this contribution establishes a link between the effects of particle size, particle volume fraction, agglomeration, and percolation, which have so far only been discussed separately in the literature. Our methodology offers new insights into the structure–property relations of PNCs and their resulting mechanical behavior. The underlying multiscale approach with a systematic transition from molecular to microscopic scales is required to complement experimental observations and exploit the full potential of PNCs.
Keywords: Polymer composites; Nanocomposites; Mechanical properties; Modeling and simulation; Interphase; Size effect; Percolation bands; Agglomeration; Finite elements

Qurat Ul Ain, M.F. Wani, Rakesh Sehgal, Manjesh Kumar Singh,
Mechanical and viscoelastic characterization of Al2O3 based polymer nanocomposites: An experimental and molecular dynamics simulation approach,
Computational Materials Science,
Volume 239,
2024,
112955,
ISSN 0927-0256,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2024.112955.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0927025624001769)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) being revolutionary materials, comprises polymer matrix phase and nanoparticles (NPs) phase. This study focuses on incorporating alumina (Al2O3) into poly-dimethyl siloxane (PDMS) matrix to analyze viscoelastic behavior and damping in response to dynamic mechanical loading. The experiments were performed using nano-DMA for comparing how Al2O3 reinforcement influences structural conformations and dynamic properties of PNCs. At 100 Hz, the storage modulus (E′) increases by 150%, 20%, and 74% for 1.0 wt% NPs with average particle sizes of 25 nm, 80 nm, and 200 nm, respectively. The significant changes in storage modulus and hardness values occur during variable frequencies (10 to 50 Hz) for 1.0 wt%, 9.0 wt%, and 7.0 wt% with reinforcements of 25 nm, 80 nm, and 200 nm, respectively. Adhesion factor and reinforcement efficiency factor highlight complementary effects of reinforcements at different frequencies. Further, an all-atom MD simulation method characterizes static and dynamic properties, predicting comprehensive dynamical and structural–property relationships. This quantifies damping capacity and reveals insights into how Al2O3 alters the material’s behavior. In summary, the study provides a precise comparative analysis of overall PNC performance, emphasizing the intrinsic effect on mechanical properties. It recognizes deformation mechanisms driving energy storage and dissipation for developing PNCs with enhanced mechanical performance.
Keywords: Al2O3-based nanocomposites; Dynamic nanoindentation; Mechanical properties; Molecular dynamics simulation; Damping capacity

Tongfei Gu, Tong Ji, Hongjie Bi, KeJiao Ding, Hao Sun, Wenxiang Zhai, Zechun Ren, Yunzhao Wei, Min Xu,
4D printed and multi-stimulus responsive shape memory polymer nanocomposites developed on hydrogen bonding–metal-phenolic sacrificial network: Application for hazardous chemical operations soft robots,
Applied Materials Today,
Volume 35,
2023,
102009,
ISSN 2352-9407,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmt.2023.102009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352940723002780)
Abstract: Designing 4D printed shape memory polymers (SMPs) with mechanical robust and multi-stimulus responses applied in soft robot holds vast promise. While significant progress has been made in this area, implementing SMP composites with multi-stimulus response capabilities for fused filament fabrication (FFF) 4D printing typically sacrifices the inherent mechanical properties of the materials, limiting the requirements for robust and tough applications of SMP in soft robotics. In this work, Fe3O4 nanoparticles are employed as functional particles, and the "hydrogen bonding–metal-phenolic" sacrificial network in the nanoparticles and polymer is designed to achieve NIR light and magnetic stimulation response without sacrificing the maximum strength and toughness of the 4D printable SMP. The SMP nanocomposite developed from the sacrificial network has a tensile strength of 18.98 MPa and an elongation at break of 897 %, a 40 % increase in strength and 196 % increase in elongation at break compared to SMP nanocomposites with direct Fe3O4 addition. In addition, the shape-programmable soft robot with NIR light and magnetic stimulation response is developed based on 4D printing. The remote precision control and drugs release demonstrates the potential application of 4D printed soft robots in hazardous chemical operations.
Keywords: 4D printing; Shape memory polymer nanocomposites; Metal-phenolic network (MPN); Sacrificial network; Soft robot

Shenyi Lu, Ke Zhang, Yu Liu, Xiaofeng Zhan, Rojan Savari,
Polymeric nanocomposite electrode for enhanced electrochemical detection of α-lipoic acid: Application in neuroinflammation prevention and clinical analysis,
Environmental Research,
Volume 245,
2024,
117369,
ISSN 0013-9351,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2023.117369.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0013935123021734)
Abstract: Using poly (vanillin-co-chitosan)/functionalized MWCNTs/GCE (PV-CS/f-MWCNTs/GCE) as a polymeric nanocomposite modified electrode, the present investigation has been conducted on the electrochemical detection of α-lipoic acid (α-LA) to prevent the activation of microglia inflammation of the nervous system. The manufacture of modified polymeric nanocomposite electrodes was carried out using the established electropolymerization process. Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analyses of structure revealed that the electropolymerization of poly (vanillin-co-chitosan) on the surface of the f-MWCNTs modified electrode was successful. Vanillin-co-chitosan electropolymerization on f-MWCNTs as electroactive sheets can enhance the signal for α-LA electrochemical sensors, according to research on the electrochemical characteristics utilizing cyclic voltammetry (CV) and differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) methodologies. The PV-CS/f-MWCNTs/GCE demonstrated that it had a sensitivity of 0.04664 μA/μM, a detection limit of 0.012 μM, and an excellent response, linear range, and wide linear range to α-LA from 0 to 3000 μM. The results of the application of PV-CS/f-MWCNTs/GCE for determining the concentration of α-LA in a prepared real sample of human serum by DPV and human lipoic acid ELISA Kit analyses via standard addition method illustrated the substantial conformity between the findings of both assays. The results of the DPV analyses resulted in acceptable recovery values (97.60%–99.10%) and appropriate values of the Relative Standard Deviation (RSD) (3.58%–5.07%), which demonstrated the great applicability and accuracy of the results of PV-CS/f-MWCNTs/GCE for determining α-LA concentration in biological fluids and pharmaceutical specimens.
Keywords: Polymeric nanocomposite modified electrode; Electrochemical sensor; α-lipoic acid; Electropolymerization; Differential pulse voltammetry

Kaniknun Sreejivungsa, Prasit Thongbai,
Enhanced dielectric properties of PVDF polymer nanocomposites: A study on gold−decorated, surface−modified multiwalled carbon nanotubes,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 4,
2024,
e26693,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e26693.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024027245)
Abstract: The integration of surface-modified multiwalled carbon nanotubes (fMWCNTs) into polymer nanocomposites has been extensively studied for their potential to enhance dielectric properties. This study, however, pioneers the use of a novel hybrid filler comprising fMWCNTs coated with metal nanoparticles, specifically aimed at augmenting the dielectric performance of polymers. In our research, poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) nanocomposite films were synthesized using fMWCNTs with a diameter of ∼6–9 nm and a length of 5 μm, adorned with gold nanoparticles (nAu) of ∼5.4 ± 0.9 nm via an adapted Turkevich method. Comprehensive analyses were conducted on nAu−fMWCNTs hybrid powder and their nanocomposites in PVDF with varying filler concentrations, confirming the formation of nAu−fMWCNTs with a weight ratio of 1.1 : 98.9. Three−phase percolative nanocomposites were produced by dispersing the hybrid filler in N,N−dimethylformamide, facilitated by interactions between the negative charge of nAu−fMWCNTs (zeta potential of ∼ −40.43 ± 0.46 mV) and polar phases of PVDF. This was verified through zeta potential and Fourier−transform infrared spectroscopy analyses. The dielectric permittivity (ε′) of the nanocomposites significantly increased from 17.8 to 524.8 (at 1 kHz) with filler loadings from 0.005 to 0.01 vol%, while the dielectric loss tangent (tanδ) showed a minor increase from 0.05 to 1.18. These enhancements are attributed to the elevated permittivity of nAu−fMWCNTs hybrid powder, PVDF's transition to the β−phase, and interfacial polarization effects. The restrained growth of nAu on fMWCNTs and the inhibition of conductive pathways in the polymer matrix contributed to the low tanδ values.
Keywords: Multiwall carbon nanotubes; nAu−fMWCNTs; Turkevich method; Zeta potential; PVDF

Maitri Patel, Ranjan Kr. Giri, Kuldeep Mishra, J.J. Chaudhari, D.K. Kanchan, Pramod K. Singh, Deepak Kumar,
Synthesis and assessment of novel Na2S dispersed high performance nanocomposite gel polymer electrolyte intended for sodium batteries and electric double layer capacitors,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 86, Part A,
2024,
111280,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.111280.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X2400865X)
Abstract: Sodium sulphide (Na2S) nanoparticles are synthesized by hydrothermal method and utilized for electrochemical application for the first time. A series of sodium-ion conducting nanocomposite gel polymer electrolytes (NCGPEs) incorporating poly (methyl methacrylate) i.e., (PMMA) as the polymer backbone, sodium tetrafluoro-borate (NaBF4) as the salt, tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether (TEGDME) as the plasticizer, and Na2S as the active fillers, are fabricated and studied. The optimized electrolyte having PMMA/NaBF4/TEGDME matrix incorporated with 2.5 wt% Na2S nanoparticles exhibits a high ionic conductivity of 3.0 × 10−4 S cm−1, low activation energy of 0.13 eV and operating voltage range of ~2.8 V at ambient temperature. Thermal studies reveal that the fabricated NCGPEs have the ability to retain the gel phase up to 473 K. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Fourier transform Infra-red (FTIR) spectroscopy indicate changes in structure and the ion–filler–polymer interactions inside the synthesized NCGPEs. A proto-type sodium cell with an optimized NCGPE has an open circuit voltage of 2.3 V and a first discharge capacity of 205 mAh g−1. The electric double layer capacitor (EDLC) designed with optimized electrolyte has a specific capacitance of 58 F g−1 and is stable up to 2000 charge-discharge cycles.
Keywords: Na2S nanoparticles; Nanocomposite gel polymer electrolyte; Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy; Sodium battery; Electric double layer capacitor

Hessa A. Alsalmah, Adel Bandar Alruqi, Omer Nur, A. Rajeh,
Developing polymer nanocomposite films of ZnO/NiFe2O4 nanohybrids, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, and chitosan for flexible electromagnetic applications and energy storage devices,
Ceramics International,
Volume 50, Issue 16,
2024,
Pages 28794-28804,
ISSN 0272-8842,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2024.05.190.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0272884224020583)
Abstract: The present study used ultra-sonication approach to manufacture ZnO/NiFe2O4 (ZNF) and casting technique to prepare ZnO/NiFe2O4–Cs/PVP nanocomposite films. The successful creation of these nanocomposites with a significant decrease in the % crystallinity of the polymer blend with doping agent was verified by XRD results. ZNF and the Cs/PVP chains interacted in the polymer nanocomposites, as seen by the spectra of the FTIR. To determine the direct and indirect optical band gaps, tauc graphs were studied using data from UV–Vis analysis. The results indicate that while the Urbach energy was found to increase, the optical band gaps decreased as the weight percentage of the nanofiller increased. Using a thermogravimetric approach, the thermal stability of the produced PNCs has been investigated. Conductivity experiments demonstrated that when the nanofiller ZNF content increased to 2.5 wt%, so did AC conductivity, the dielectric loss, and the dielectric constant. The correlation between the mechanism of conduction and the amount of nanoparticles indicates that an increase in the percentage of ZNF in nanocomposites could increase their conductivity, with values ranging from 3.72 × 10−12 for pure blend to 7.72 × 10−8 S/cm for 2.5%ZNF-Cs/PVP at 100 Hz. The dielectric measurements for the nanocomposite films showed an increase in dielectric losses and dielectric constant, which is indicative of the films' enhanced dielectric polarization. The results of characterization point to possible uses of these polymer nanocomposites in flexible optoelectronic and magneto-electronic applications and energy storage devices.
Keywords: ZnO/NiFe2O4 nanohybrids; Optical properties; Dielectric properties; Ac conductivity; Magnetic properties

Huitian Cheng, Wenqiang Zhang, Wangfeng Bai, Peng Zheng, Peng Li, Jiwei Zhai,
High-temperature high-performance capacitive energy storage in polymer nanocomposites enabled by nanostructured MgO fillers,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 96,
2024,
112752,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.112752.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24023387)
Abstract: High-temperature high-performance polymer dielectric capacitors are essential for cutting-edge electronics and high-power systems operated in harsh environment conditions. Herein, dielectric composites comprising polyetherimide (PEI) polymers and easily prepared magnesium oxide (MgO) nanoparticles are fabricated by tape casting to promote capacitive performance at high temperatures. Benefiting from high-insulation behavior and wide bandgap of the MgO nanoparticles, the designed PEI nanocomposites deliver the significantly suppressed leakage current density and prominent enhancement of the breakdown strength, especially under high temperatures, the rationality of which is further revealed by finite element simulations on high-field distribution and electrical tree evolution. Accordingly, the nanocomposites containing ultra-low loading volume (0.5 vol%) MgO nanoparticles endow a large discharged energy density (~ 6.60 J cm−3) at 150 °C, which is ahead of most investigated 0–3 dielectric nanocomposites with inorganic fillers. Moreover, the excellent fatigue resistance at 150 °C is simultaneously achieved. This study demonstrates a practical route to develop scalable high-temperature polymer nanocomposite dielectrics blended with inorganic nanoparticles with superior capacitive performance, thus accelerating the development of dielectric polymer capacitors.
Keywords: Dielectric capacitor; Energy storage energy; Nano-filler; Polymer composites; Breakdown strength

Luciana Mentasti, Nahuel Martínez, Ileana A. Zucchi, Julián Marcazzó, Guillermo Orellana, Martín Santiago, Gastón Barreto,
Novel materials for radiation sensing in radiotherapy treatments: Development of luminescent YVO4:Eu3+ polymer-based nanocomposites,
Optical Materials,
Volume 150,
2024,
115285,
ISSN 0925-3467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optmat.2024.115285.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925346724004683)
Abstract: This scientific work explores the development of luminescent nanocomposite materials for radiation sensors in Fiber Optic Dosimetry (FOD). The study emphasizes the use of YVO4:Eu3+ as a scintillator material due to its high luminescent efficiency. However, the challenge arises from its higher effective atomic number compared to soft tissue. To address this issue, the work explores the dispersion of YVO4:Eu3+ as nanoparticles (NPs) in a biocompatible polymeric matrix, specifically considering poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) and poly(ethylene glycol) dimethacrylate (PEGDMA). Both PMMA/YVO4:Eu3+@TMSPM and PEGDMA/YVO4:Eu3+@TMSPM formulations were synthesized with minimal impact on the glass transition temperatures of the polymers. Under UV and beta particle excitation, these formulations exhibit emission spectra characteristic of Eu3+ f-f transitions. The decay times of the main emission peak at 620 nm were 615 μs, 584 μs, and 567 μs for the NPs, PEGDMA- and PMMA-based polymeric nanocomposites (PNCs), respectively. These decay times fall within the range suitable for scintillators in LINAC pulsed radiation facilities. Also, PEGDMA- and PMMA-based PNCs with varying contents of YVO4:Eu3+ NPs showed radioluminescence spectra under beta particle irradiation. This work demonstrates the feasibility of developing PEGDMA- and PMMA-based PNCs containing dispersed YVO4:Eu3+ NPs for their application as scintillators in radiotherapy dosimetry.

Zahra Hadi, Jafar Khademzadeh Yeganeh, Yasser Zare, Muhammad Tajammal Munir, Kyong Yop Rhee,
Predicting of electrical conductivity for Polymer-MXene nanocomposites,
Journal of Materials Research and Technology,
Volume 28,
2024,
Pages 4229-4238,
ISSN 2238-7854,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmrt.2024.01.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2238785424000152)
Abstract: The prediction of electrical conductivity in MXene nanosheet –polymer composites is a complex task that lacks a straightforward model. In this study, a model is proposed to predict the conductivity for the samples filled with MXene. Our proposed method takes into account various factors that influence the overall conductivity of the samples. The factors include the dimensions of MXene, volume fraction of MXene, percolation onset, tunnel distance, network fraction, and interphase thickness. The validity of the expressed method is examined using experimental data for several samples. Furthermore, an analysis of the relationship between the predicted conductivity and the parameters is conducted to confirm the reliability of the proposed methodology. The calculated outcomes from the proposed model exhibit a high level of accordance with the experimented conductivity of the samples. The maximum electrical conductivity of 16.1 S/m is achieved by the minimum tunneling distance of 1 nm, but the conductivity becomes very weak when tunneling distance in more than 11 nm.
Keywords: MXene; Polymer nanocomposite; Electrical conductivity; Interphase; Tunneling distance

Tianbo Deng, Zhiyuan Peng, Yuan Gao, He Zhao, Binbin Xu, Ling Zhang, Chunzhong Li,
Tadpole-like bottlebrush polymer-modified multiwalled carbon nanotubes: A strategy for interface-strengthened polymer nanocomposites with exceptional performance,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 274,
2024,
111275,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2024.111275.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836824000866)
Abstract: Nanocomposites incorporating hierarchically structured nanofillers create great opportunities to generate high-performance artificial materials. However, the rational design of the chemistry and structure of interfaces within polymer matrix is still challenging due to the intrinsic mismatch between nanofiller and matrix. Herein, we report an effective approach to fabricate chitosan (CS)-based nanocomposites with integrated high strength and toughness whose interfaces are chemically modulated by tadpole-like bottlebrush polymers (BBPs) modified multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs). The tadpole-like PCL-b-(PCL-g-PGMA) BBPs, containing a bottlebrush poly(ε-caprolactone)-g-poly(glycidyl methacrylate) (PCL-g-PGMA) main body and a linear soft PCL tail, act as a bridge to connect the MWCNTs and CS matrix, resulting in the soft inner layer (PCL tail) and the stretchable cross-linked outer layer (PCL-g-PGMA main body) at the interface of the CS/MWCNTs-BBPs nanocomposite films. Significantly, unlike traditional block copolymers (BCPs) toughening with limited stretching spacing, the coupling of stretched PGMA brush and soft PCL backbone in PCL-g-PGMA main body impart the MWCNTs-BBPs with stretchable interfacial spatial distance when the MWCNTs bear stretching force. The resultant CS/MWCNTs-BBPs nanocomposite film with 1.5 wt% MWCNTs loading exhibits high tensile strength (up to 80.6 % increase), exceptional elongation at break (up to 380 % increase), and superior toughness (up to 976 % increase) in comparison with the neat CS. This study represents a new strategy for designing interface-strengthened nanocomposites with exceptional performance and holding great promise in a wide range of applications.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Double-layered interface; Tadpole-like bottlebrush polymers; Enhanced mechanical properties; Biodegradability

Rajita Sanaka, Santosh Kumar Sahu,
Influence of nanofiller addition on the mechanical, thermal, and shape recovery behavior of shape memory polymer nanocomposite: A brief review,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
2023,
,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2023.06.370.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221478532303763X)
Abstract: Shape memory polymers (SMPs) are macromolecules that exhibit a shape memory effect due to linear chains and crosslinking sites. SMPs may alter structure, size, stiffness, and form in response to external stimuli. The neat SMP has low mechanical and thermal properties, which may be improved by adding nanofillers called shape memory polymer nanocomposite (SMPNC). The current review study performs an in-depth investigation of the mechanical, thermal, and shape recovery behavior of SMPNC. The significance of the research highlights that the addition of nanofiller has a positive impact on safe fixity, but it has little impact on the shape recovery behavior of the SMPNC. It was observed that the addition of nanofiller and their concentration improves the mechanical and thermal properties.. The SMPNC has potential uses in a variety of industries, including aerospace, automotive, biomedical engineering, smart textiles, tactile devices, and robotics.
Keywords: Shape memory polymer nanocomposite (SMPNC); Mechanical properties; Thermal properties; Shape recovery behavior

Dong-Yin Wang, Chang-Feng Chen, Fei Ju, Yang-Chuan Ke,
High-temperature resistant polymer nanocomposites with exfoliated organic-modified montmorillonite nanosheets strongly adsorbed on polymer chains,
Petroleum Science,
2024,
,
ISSN 1995-8226,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.petsci.2024.07.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1995822624001900)
Abstract: It has been demonstrated that almost all polymer-clay nanocomposites show higher temperature stability than that of pure polymer, which is attributed to the active exfoliated clay nanosheet firmly adsorbed onto the polymer chains, due to polerization and nucleation effect, the clay nanosheets could protect the polymer chains from destroying. To prove such mechanism, the water-soluble polymer nanocomposites (AAA/SLS-MMT) were synthesized by the in-situ polymerization of 2-acrylamide-2-methyl-propane sulfonic acid, acrylamide, 4-acryloylmorpholine, and organically modified montmorillonite. The techniques of nuclear magnetic resonance, atomic force microscopy and scanning electron microscopy etc., clearly characterized the successful synthesized of sample’s structure, the exfoliated MMT nanosheet adsorbed polymer chain’s scale, and well-dispersed morphology, espectively. The adsorption model, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy presented the existence of strong adsorption, while molecular simulation calculations first concluded that the strong adsorption energy was −13032.06 kcal/mol. Thermo-gravimetric-analysis proved the temperature of maximum thermal degradation of powder sample (AAA/1.0 wt% SLS-MMT) was over 298 °C. After ageing at 180 °C for 4 h, the apparent viscosity of 5 g/L AAA/1.0 wt% SLS-MMT aqueous solution was 326.7 mPa⋅s, while that of pure polymer (AAA) was only 8.3 mPa⋅s. This optimized sample has the smallest FLAPI value at all test temperatures from 180 to 220 °C in both fresh and salt water based drilling fluid. All the evidences of high temperature resistance indicate that the strong adsorption can enhance the thickness of hydrated shell and adsorption of clay particles in drilling fluid at high temperature. Such mechanism supplied the better way to design high-temperature resistant fluid loss additives for deep and ultra-deep oil and gas formation engineering.
Keywords: Adsorption chain; Exfoliated montmorillonite nanosheet; In situ polymerization; Water-soluble; High-temperature resistance

Maximilian Ries, Lukas Laubert, Paul Steinmann, Sebastian Pfaller,
Impact of the unimodal molar mass distribution on the mechanical behavior of polymer nanocomposites below the glass transition temperature: A generic, coarse-grained molecular dynamics study,
European Journal of Mechanics - A/Solids,
Volume 107,
2024,
105379,
ISSN 0997-7538,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.euromechsol.2024.105379.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0997753824001591)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) have shown great potential to meet the ever-growing requirements of modern engineering applications. Nowadays, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations are increasingly employed to complement experimental work and thereby gain a deeper understanding of the complex structure–property relations of PNCs. However, with respect to the thermoplastic’s mechanical behavior, the role of its average molar mass M¯n is rarely addressed, and many MD studies only consider uniform (monodispersed) polymers. Therefore, this contribution investigates the impact that M¯n and the dispersity Đ have on the stiffness and strength of PNCs through coarse-grained MD. To this end, we employed a Kremer–Grest bead–spring model and observed the expected increase in the mechanical performance of the neat polymer for larger M¯n. Our results indicated that the unimodal molar mass distribution does not impact the mechanical behavior in the investigated dispersity range 1.0≤Đ≤1.09. For the PNC, we obtained the same M¯n-dependence and Đ-independence of the mechanical properties over a wide range of filler sizes and contents. This contribution proves that even simple MD models can reproduce the experimentally well researched effect of the molar mass. Hence, this work is an important step in understanding the complex structure–property relations of PNCs, which is essential to unlock their full potential.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Glassy polymer; Mechanical properties; Molar mass distribution; Coarse graining; Molecular dynamics

M. S. Hashem, Hend S. Magar, Asmaa M. Fahim, Rokaya A. Sobh,
Antioxidant-rich brilliant polymeric nanocomposites for quick and efficient non-enzymatic hydrogen peroxide sensor††Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/10.1039/d4ra01768d,
RSC Advances,
Volume 14, Issue 19,
2024,
Pages 13142-13156,
ISSN 2046-2069,
https://doi.org/10.1039/d4ra01768d.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2046206924011276)
Abstract: In our current research, a new type of functional nanocomposites known as poly(methyl methacrylate/N,N-dimethyl aminoethylmethacrylate/(E)-2-cyano-N-cyclohexyl-3 (dimethylamino) acrylamide) [poly(MMA/DMAEMA/CHAA)] has been developed. These nanocomposites were created using microemulsion polymerization in conjunction with synthesized titanium dioxide (TiO2), and vanadium pentoxide (V2O5) nanoparticles. To understand the physio-chemical characteristics of the poly(MMA/DMAEMA/CHAA) and the metal oxide nanoparticles (MOs) integrated within them, various analytical techniques were employed. These techniques included Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR), X-ray diffraction analysis (XRD), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and electrical approaches such as cyclic voltammetry (CV) and electrical impedance spectra (EIS). Based on the TEM results, nanospheres with a well-defined structure were developed for both the pure polymer and its composite with sizes ranging from 45 to 75 nm. All the TiO2 and V2O5-based nanocomposites showed significantly enhanced electrical attributes, with capacitance values surpassing those of the poly(MMA/DMAEMA/CHAA) nanosphere assemblies by a considerable margin. As a result, both direct electron transfer and direct hydrogen peroxide identification were evaluated for the nanocomposites. The amperometry results demonstrated a lower detection limit of 0.0085 μM and a rapid linear sensitivity in the range of 1 to 800 μM. The greatly improved electrolytic qualities of these nanocomposites make them suitable for various applications in fields such as battery storage, sensors, and biosensors.

Yue Pan, Zhequan Zhang, Ying Jiang, Ziqi Pang, Meilin Wan, Yongming Hu, Yunbin He, Qingfeng Zhang,
Excellent energy storage and discharge performances realized in polymer nanocomposites by introducing core-shell antiferroelectric fillers and constructing bilayer interfaces,
Journal of Alloys and Compounds,
Volume 969,
2023,
172373,
ISSN 0925-8388,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.172373.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925838823036769)
Abstract: Polymer composites filled with one or two-dimensional ferroelectrics possess large discharged energy density (Ue), but deliver low efficiency (η) by reason of their high remnant electric displacement (Dr), and require demanding process conditions. To solve these issues, we have proposed Pb,La(Zr,Sn,Ti)O3 (PLZST)@Al2O3 nanoparticles (NPs)/polyimide (PI)-PLZST@Al2O3 NPs/poly(vinylidene fluoride-hexafluoropropylene) P(VDF-HFP) bilayer nanocomposites. PLZST antiferroelectrics exhibit small Dr and high maximum electric displacement (Dmax), and the Al2O3 shell possesses near dielectric constant with P(VDF-HFP) and PI, which can improve the Dmax, increase the breakdown strength (Eb), and refine D-E loops, and simple preparation method of the NPs is beneficial for the industrial production. The bilayer structure combines advantages of PLZST@Al2O3 NPs/PI with slim D-E loops and small Dr, and PLZST@Al2O3/P(VDF-HFP) possessing high Dmax. Besides, large dielectric differences between adjacent layers inhibit electrical tree growth, thus further causing improved Eb, which is confirmed by electrical tree evolving simulations. Consequently, the bilayer nanocomposites display an ultrahigh Ue of 21.89 J/cm3, which surpasses those of currently reported polymer nanocomposites filled with NPs, and large η of 78.2%. More encouragingly, it manifests ultrafast discharge time of 18.8 ns and ultrahigh power density of 28.3 MW/cm3, meaning its great application prospect in pulse power systems.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Antiferroelectric fillers; Bilayer structure; Interface polarization; Energy storage

Saeid Darvishi, Erkan Senses,
Interfacial polymer architecture can control nanoparticle dispersion and rheological behavior of nanocomposites,
European Polymer Journal,
Volume 196,
2023,
112320,
ISSN 0014-3057,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eurpolymj.2023.112320.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014305723005037)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) have become essential components in many advanced materials applications, from solid state battery electrolytes to high-performance structural components. In PNCs, the large fraction of interfacial polymers determines their outstanding rheological performance; yet, strategies to control the structure and dynamics of the interfacial polymer has been very limited. Here, using poly(ethylene oxide)-silica model nanocomposite system, we propose a facile approach based on varying macromolecular architecture of interfacial polymers. We show that by changing the topology of the bound polymer from linear to star and hyperbranched, polymer-NP interaction as well as chain interpenetration in the interphases can be effectively altered without changing type or molecular weight of the polymer, or NP surface chemistry in attractive PNCs. Our results show that both dispersion and rheological behavior of PNCs depend highly on functionality and arm length of the polymers used at the interfaces. These results can be used to design ion-conductive molten polymer electrolytes with significantly improved mechanical properties suitable for solid-state battery applications.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Chain architecture; Polymer electrolytes; Rheology; Nanoparticle dispersion

Yasser Zare, Nima Gharib, Kyong Yop Rhee,
Influences of graphene morphology and contact distance between nanosheets on the effective conductivity of polymer nanocomposites,
Journal of Materials Research and Technology,
Volume 25,
2023,
Pages 3588-3597,
ISSN 2238-7854,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmrt.2023.06.124.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2238785423013704)
Abstract: Herein, the contact distance and effective tunneling conductivity in graphene polymer nanocomposites are expressed assuming the properties of graphene stack and the resistances of all components by graphene dimensions, interphase depth, contact resistance and filler morphology (stacked and well-dispersed nanosheets). In the case of incomplete filler dispersion in the matrix, the volume share, aspect ratio and conduction of stacks are suggested. Also, the contact distance is presented based on a power law description by percolation onset and effective filler amount supposing the properties of stacks. The effects of all parameters on the contact distance and effective conductivity are plotted at various ranges of factors. Undoubtedly, the reasonable impacts of all factors on the contact distance and effective conductivity justify the suggested equations. A higher filler amount, more filler dispersion, lower number of nanosheets in stacks, higher aspect ratio of filler (thinner and larger nanosheets), deeper interphase and larger distance between nanosheets in stacks produce a shorter contact distance, bigger network and less total resistance causing more effective conductivity.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Graphene; Effective conductivity; Morphology; Interphase; Contact distance

Ashish Soni, Pankaj Kumar Das, Sonu Kumar Gupta,
Experimental investigations on the influence of natural reinforcements on tribological performance of sustainable nanocomposites: A comparative study with polymer technology,
Tribology International,
Volume 191,
2024,
109195,
ISSN 0301-679X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.triboint.2023.109195.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301679X23009866)
Abstract: Sustainable polymer-based nanocomposites are gaining consideration as a potential alternative to conventional composites in tribological applications. The research aimed to study the influence of reinforcements on the tribological response of sustainable polymer-based nanocomposites. In this work, nine different nanocomposites were developed by the recycling of waste plastics of three different types with incorporation of coconut fibers, jute fibers and nano-sized particles of rice husk ash. Three-body abrasive wear behaviour at five different conditions of loads and speeds were investigated. The wear of the composites increases invariably with the applied loads and speeds, and were in the ranges of 0.0154–0.2212 (cm3) and 0.02207–0.4398 (cm3), respectively. The comparative analysis of the three-body abrasive wear at the conditions of speeds has suggested the reinforcement of coconut fibers with low-density polyethylene for optimum tribological performance, whereas reinforcement of rice husk ash showed an excellent wear resistance for high-density polyethylene and polypropylene composites. The observations for three-body abrasive wear under the considered loads has suggested the incorporation of coconut fibers with low-density polyethene and polypropylene composites, whereas rice husk ash is a suitable reinforcement with high-density polyethene for optimum tribological performance. The rolling behaviour of the nanoparticles has considerably enabled the tribological performance of nanocomposites at extreme conditions of loads and speeds. The research indicated a great potential for natural reinforcement in nanocomposites and will promote the expansion of sustainable polymer-based nanocomposites for tribological applications.
Keywords: Abrasive wear; Plastic wastes; Natural reinforcements; Nanocomposite; Recycling; Tribology

Abhishek Saxena, Amrinder Mehta, Hitesh Vasudev, Gaurav Prashar, Nisreen Yasir Jasim,
A short review on machine learning for the purpose of optimizing and predicting the properties of polymeric nanocomposites,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
2023,
,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2023.07.347.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214785323042189)
Abstract: The mechanical, electrical, and thermal properties of nanocomposite materials are vastly superior to those of their bulk counterparts. Adding nanoparticles (sometimes called nanofillers or nano reinforcing) to a material is a common way to make the polymeric matrix more robust. The automobile, aviation, aerospace, maritime, and municipal industries can all benefit greatly from these materials. Common types of carbon-based nanomaterials include graphene sheets and carbon nanotubes. Their mechanical, electrical, and optical qualities are unparalleled.This material has the potential to be used in the development of synthetic scaffolding. According to their properties, nanofillers can be broken down into one of three broad categories. In this paper, we provide an overview of recent advances in the application of machine learning (ML)-driven approaches for the logical design of polymer nanocomposite materials. It has been found that nanocomposites in this setting can take on one of three distinct morphologies: phase separated, intercalated, or exfoliated. This is because the resulting mechanical and thermal properties are intimately tied to the particular morphologies that are developed. Melt mixing, compression moulding, and in-situ polymerization are common techniques for creating polymeric nanocomposites. When it comes to the toughness and rigidity of composites, stress transfer from the continuous phase to the dispersed phase is a crucial occurrence. Polymer nanocomposites are a class of nanomaterials that have the potential to be used in a variety of applications such as tissue engineering.
Keywords: Composite materials; Polymer matrix; Machine learning; Nanofiller; Characteristics; Reinforcement

Mojtaba Haghgoo, Reza Ansari, Mohammad Kazem Hassanzadeh-Aghdam, Jaehwan Kim,
The percolation inception of the CNT-polymer nanocomposites with the magneto-electric field effects on the CNT subbands,
Composites Part A: Applied Science and Manufacturing,
Volume 185,
2024,
108332,
ISSN 1359-835X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesa.2024.108332.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359835X24003294)
Abstract: The percolation inception of CNT-polymer nanocomposites is studied considering the magneto-electric field effects on CNT subbands. The analytical model predicts the electrical conductivity where CNTs are modeled as slender rods with their geometric orientations as randomly distributed or aligned to transfer electrons at tunneling distance range. The tunneling effect takes into account the electron transmission between every linked pair of CNTs when evaluating electrical resistance. The subsequent CNT displacement computation and the resistance change comprise the other phase of the modeling approach. Piezoresistivity results of the analyses agree well with the experimental data when considering tunneling behavior in the percolation transition zone. The magnetic field enhances the field affected subbands and increases the electrical conductivity by enhancing the mobility of the charges. The results reveal that the efficiency of CNT network in transmitting charges is increased with higher aspect ratio CNTs that scaled the sensitivity to lower values.
Keywords: A. Carbon nanotubes and nanofibers; A. Multifunctional composites; B. Electrical properties; C. Analytical modelling

Cátia Guarda, Bruno Faria, José N. Canongia Lopes, Nuno Silvestre,
Mechanical characterization of polymer-grafted graphene PEG nanocomposites using molecular dynamics,
Composites Science and Technology,
Volume 250,
2024,
110514,
ISSN 0266-3538,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compscitech.2024.110514.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0266353824000848)
Abstract: It is known that most polymers exhibit poor interfacial compatibility with graphene sheets. Modification of graphene's surface by functionalization with small polymer chains from the same building blocks as the matrix polymer improves the compatibility of graphene in polymeric materials. In this paper, the mechanical behaviour of polyethylene glycol (PEG) nanocomposites with graphene grafted with polymeric chains under tensile and compression is investigated using molecular dynamics. The influence of the functional groups (-NH2 and –OH) that bond the polymer chain to graphene is analysed. It is found that the system containing the –NH2 functional group showed lower mechanical properties than the system containing the –OH functional group. The mechanical properties of five PEG-nanocomposites are investigated: PEG/G, PEG/GNH-1PEG-S, PEG/GNH-2PEG-L, PEG/GNH-1PEG-S-NH2, PEG/GO-1PEG-S. The radius distribution function values and the variation of interfacial interaction energy are also examined. It is shown that functionalization of the graphene sheet increases the magnitude of the interaction energy, and it also reveals higher adhesion between graphene surface and PEG matrix. It is found that the mechanical properties of PEG are mostly improved in the longitudinal direction (reinforcement up to 43 %). Despite the high interaction between the nanofiller and PEG matrix, the low intrinsic properties of the nanofiller, namely Young's modulus, as well as the rupture of the graphene sheet during the deformation process deteriorated the mechanical properties of the nanocomposite. The presence of polymeric chains grafted to graphene improves the adhesion between the graphene surface and the polymeric matrix but decreases its mechanical properties.
Keywords: Functionalized graphene; Polyethylene glycol (PEG) nanocomposites; Compression; Tension; Mechanical properties

Giti Pishehvarz, Jafar Azamat,
Interfacial interaction energies at the interface of graphene/conductive polymer nanocomposites: A reactive molecular dynamics study,
Computational and Theoretical Chemistry,
Volume 1232,
2024,
114451,
ISSN 2210-271X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comptc.2023.114451.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210271X23004334)
Abstract: Reactive molecular dynamics (RMD) simulation was employed to investigate the interaction in the polymer nanocomposites, including functionalized graphene nanosheet (FGN) and conductive polymers namely poly (3-phenylhydrazone thiophene) (PPHT), poly (3-(4-n-octyl)-phenylthiophene) (POPT). FGN structures were resulted from incorporation of aryl functional groups containing various substitutions, including hydroxyl, ether. The effect of alkyl chain attached to hydroxyl was also examined. Based on the obtained results, the highest level of interaction energy was achieved in the PPHT/graphene-phenethyl alcohol (G-PhCH2CH2OH) and POPT/G-phenol (G-PhOH). The cause of the increase or decrease interaction energy in certain interaction in polymer nanocomposites was investigate by examining radial distribution function (RDF) diagrams in the case of different reactive sites. In addition, the polymer's state in terms of expansion or contraction during its interaction with FGN was determined based on radius of gyration (Rg) of the polymer. The impact of temperature variations among other parameters, was also examined. For this purpose, the nanocomposite of polymers/graphene-phenyl methyl ether (G-PhOCH3) was investigated at elevated temperature above 300 K. Ultimately, the investigation based on obtained RMD simulation results demonstrated a strong agreement with other reported other papers.
Keywords: Arylation; Graphene; Conductive polymer; Interaction energy; Reactive molecular dynamics

Shahnawaz Ahmad Bhat, Fahmina Zafar, Azar Ullah Mirza, Paramjit Singh, Aftab Hossain Mondal, Nahid Nishat,
Nanovertenergie: Bactericidal polymer nanocomposite beads for carcinogenic dye removal from aqueous solution,
Journal of Molecular Structure,
Volume 1284,
2023,
135232,
ISSN 0022-2860,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molstruc.2023.135232.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022286023003290)
Abstract: This project stresses the current problems in the industrial revolution and the increasing demand for new products due to the population explosion. In the race for industrialization, the production unlimited byproducts and discharge of harmful gases in the atmosphere, discharging harmful sewage into fresh water resources and dumping of harmful waste in the soil. Polymer nanocomposites enable an eco-friendly environment that is dignified to be far for efficient than the current strategies, and likewise, anti-bacterial, and water treatment holds the future. Here, the design and development of polymer nanocomposite based on polyvinyl alcohol cross-linked with melamine-formaldehyde doped with Cu nanoparticles. The electrostatic interaction between polymer matrixes increases the chemical stability after doping Cu nanoparticles. The chemical stability order of polymer nanocomposites was confirmed by contact angle (58-90o) in water> NaOH> HCl. The polymer nanocomposite films were analyzed for the Congo red (CR) dye adsorption using Batch adsorption methods. Three parameters were used to determine dye adsorption by contact time, pH, and the dye concentration of CR dye. The dye adsorption analysis reveals that CR dye adsorption increases in polymer nanocomposite films from (C1-C5). CR dye adsorption increase with respect to contact upto 80% mg L−1, but the adsorption percentage decreases (68-13%) as the pH (4-10) increases values. The anti-bacterial results reveal that the inhibition against B. subtilis 736 and S. aureus is 40 mm and 35 mm, respectively, after the encapsulation of Cu nanoparticles. The present study launched a positive effort to design and develop an eco-friendly, very efficient, and safe synthesis of nanomaterials with unparalleled properties like waste water treatment discharge from textile industries for cleaner production, bactericidal, and packing industries.
Keywords: Polyvinyl alcohol; Melamine-formaldehyde; Cu nanoparticles; Polymer nanocomposite; Dye adsorption; Biodegradation; Hydrophobicity; Anti-bacterial activity

Anamika Prasad, Jason Hasse, Timothy Steimle, Dhriti Nepal, Geoffrey J. Frank, Vikas Varshney,
Mechanical behavior of MXene-Polymer layered nanocomposite using computational finite element analysis,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 284,
2024,
111689,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2024.111689.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836824005018)
Abstract: The structural integrity of MXene and MXene-based materials is important across applications from sensors to energy storage. While MXene processing has received significant attention, its structural integrity for real-world applications remains challenging due to its flake-like structure. Here the mechanical response of layered MXene-polymer nanocomposites (MPC) with high MXene concentration (>70 %) and bioinspired nacre-like brick-and-mortar architecture is investigated to offer insights for MPC design and processing. An automated finite element analysis (FEA) framework is developed to analyze MPC models with randomized geometries and multiple combinations of the parameter space. Specifically, the influence of concentration, aspect ratio (AR), flake thickness, flake distribution, and interfacial strength is investigated. The results reveal property trends such as increasing elastic modulus, strength, and toughness with increasing cohesive strength and concentration for lower AR (=40, 60) but a decreasing trend at higher AR of 75. Local structural features like flake distribution, overlapping MXene lengths, and interconnected polymers in adjacent layers was found a critical determinant of performance. For example, stronger cohesive interaction showed 6X high toughness (291 ± 226 KJ/m3) compared to weaker case (50 ± 24 KJ/m3), but the large scatter highlighted the impact of microstructural features. The results are compared and validated with theoretical, computational, and experimental work. The findings provide valuable guidance for optimizing MPC design and their processing. Finally, the automation of the framework allows the design to be extended beyond the current system and chosen material combinations.
Keywords: MXene; Bioinspired; Nanocomposite; FEA; Nacre

Tamás Gera, Bence Kondász, Tomi Smausz, Judit Kopniczky, Szabolcs Hodovány, Tibor Ajtai, Piroska Szabó-Révész, Rita Ambrus, Ildikó Csóka, Béla Hopp,
Pulsed laser ablation of polymer-based magnetic nanocomposites for oil spill remediation,
Cleaner Materials,
Volume 11,
2024,
100235,
ISSN 2772-3976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clema.2024.100235.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772397624000194)
Abstract: Oil spills represent a critical environmental threat, particularly to marine ecosystems, necessitating the development of efficient and eco-friendly remediation technologies. This study explores the application of pulsed laser ablation (PLA) in fabricating polymer-based magnetic nanocomposites, with a focus on polyvinylpyrrolidone, chitosan, and methyl cellulose. These polymers, renowned for their proficiency in adsorbing pollutants from various oils, were combined with magnetite nanoparticles (NPs) in a compressed tablet form. The PLA process facilitated the generation of nanocomposites, which were subsequently collected using an external magnetic field. The chemical composition of these composites was analyzed through Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) and Raman spectroscopy, while particle sizes were determined using the Leica Image Processing and Analysis System. The study revealed that PLA is a green, single-step, and effective technique for preparing magnetic nanocomposites, producing particles predominantly in the 400 nm–4 µm size range. Furthermore, the application of these composites in oil/water separation demonstrated with separation commencing approximately 1 s after the application of a magnetic field. These findings underscore the potential of PLA in crafting magnetic nanocomposites for the rapid and environmentally sustainable remediation of oil spills.
Keywords: Water waste management; Pulsed laser ablation; Magnetic nanocomposites; Remediation; Oil spill; Composite materials

So Yern Kim, Jin-Wook Kim, Sooyoung Yang, Minjeong Oh, Gyu Jin Shin, Jun Hyup Lee,
Reversibly stable and highly stretchable transparent polymer nanocomposite adhesives using hierarchical spring-like molecular nanobridges,
Reactive and Functional Polymers,
Volume 199,
2024,
105914,
ISSN 1381-5148,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.reactfunctpolym.2024.105914.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1381514824000890)
Abstract: For the development of stretchable optoelectronic devices, optically transparent composite adhesives should afford reversible stretchability and high optical transmittance as well as strong interfacial adhesion. However, simultaneous achievement of these essential prerequisites for advanced stretchable optical composite adhesives remains challenging. Herein, we offer an unprecedented approach for the fabrication of reversibly stretchable and optically transparent polymer nanocomposite adhesives based on the construction of hierarchical elastic molecular nanobridges between rigid-flexible hybrid nanoparticles and matrix resin. Photoreactive flexible poly(propylene glycol) (meth)acrylate chains were chemically combined with a rigid nano-silica core to form rigid and flexible hybrid nanoparticles. Subsequently, multiple elastic molecular nanobridges between the embedded hybrid nanoparticles and acrylate resin matrix were constructed inside the polymer composite through UV curing, which results in a stretchable interconnection that allows efficient repeated stretching and recovery of stretchable polymer nanocomposite adhesives. The newly fabricated nanocomposite adhesive film with a low content of rigid-flexible hybrid nanoparticles afforded an excellent reversible stretchability and outstanding cyclic elastic durability, and simultaneously maintained high optical transparency (95.1%) and interfacial adhesion strength (21.5 N/25 mm) of the film compared to those of conventional optical adhesive film.
Keywords: Elastic molecular nanobridges; Hybrid nanoparticles; Optical transparency; Reversible stretchability; Stretchable nanocomposite adhesives

Giti Pishehvarz, Jafar Azamat,
Effect of various aryl substitutions on the interfacial interaction energy of graphene/conductive polymer nanocomposites,
Chemical Physics,
Volume 577,
2024,
112121,
ISSN 0301-0104,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemphys.2023.112121.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301010423003038)
Abstract: Studying intermolecular interactions in polymer nanocomposites is highly effective in achieving high-efficiency nanocomposites. To investigate the polymer nanocomposites including conductive polymers, namely poly (3-phenylhydrazone thiophene) (PPHT), poly (3-(4-n-octyl)-phenylthiophene) (POPT), and functionalized graphene nanosheet (FGN), reactive molecular dynamics (RMD) simulation were employed. The FGN structures were a result of the arylation of graphene nanosheets containing different substitutions including sulfide, amine, di-amine, and thiol functional groups. According to interaction energies at polymers / arylated graphene nanosheet, the most interaction energies resulted in nanocomposites of PPHT/graphene-thiophenyl amine (G-PATP) and POPT/graphene-p-Phenylenediamine (G-PPD). Due to the polarity of PPHT, the formation of hydrogen bonding (H-bonding) was expected at specific sites, which were confirmed based on H-bonding interaction criteria. In reality, the criteria required for detecting H-bonding through RDF and the relevant angle measurement have been established. On the other hand, due to the acidic-sensitive hydrazone bond in PPHT, it was expected that the increasing trend in interaction energy of nanocomposites of PPHT could be solely justified based on the acidity of the functional groups employed. However, based on the obtained results, other factors such as the topological polar surface area (TPSA) and the formation of unconventional H-bonding, in addition to the acidity of functional groups, have been considered as influential factors in the changing of interaction energy. Also, the dynamic behavior of polymers was examined by plotting the radius of the gyration (Rg) parameter via time and functional groups. Finally, the temperature effect on interaction energy was determined, too.
Keywords: Arylated graphene; Conductive polymer; Interaction energy; Polymer; Reactive molecular dynamics

Na Kyung Kwon, Taewon Kim, Seunghan Yun, Hyunhong Kim, Hyun-Wook Lee, Jongnam Park, So Youn Kim,
Decoupling of mechanical properties and ionic conductivity in a low molecular weight polymer nanocomposites with highly connected particle aggregates,
Polymer,
Volume 286,
2023,
126401,
ISSN 0032-3861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2023.126401.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0032386123007310)
Abstract: Hypothesis: High molecular weight polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) with good thermal stability and elevated mechanical strengths can serve as composite polymer electrolytes (CPEs) and thus have been considered as an alternative to conventional liquid electrolytes. However, resolving low ionic conductivity issues of CPEs arising from the low chain mobility derived from a long polymer chain remains challenging. Experiments: Here, we introduce PNCs for use in CPEs which show 1.4 × 10−4 S/cm of ionic conductivity at room temperature with a high shear modulus of 107 Pa using a low molecular weight poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) matrix and dopamine-modified PEG brush polymer grafted-silica nanoparticles. Findings: We found that densely interconnected supramolecular particle networks can decouple the mechanical strength and ionic conductivity, as the Li-doped interfacial polymer layer supports a direct lithium-ion transport pathway. The extensive structural and rheological studies characterized by small-angle X-ray scattering and oscillatory rheometry experiments revealed that particle connections through interfacial polymer layers play an important role in supporting the elevated mechanical and electrochemical properties with a good thermal stability of PNCs.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Composite polymer electrolyte; Interfacial polymer layer; Ionic conductivity; Mechanical strength; Small-angle X-ray scattering; Rheometry

Felix Weber, Vincent Dötschel, Paul Steinmann, Sebastian Pfaller, Maximilian Ries,
Evaluating the impact of filler size and filler content on the stiffness, strength, and toughness of polymer nanocomposites using coarse-grained molecular dynamics,
Engineering Fracture Mechanics,
Volume 307,
2024,
110270,
ISSN 0013-7944,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engfracmech.2024.110270.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0013794424004338)
Abstract: Their great versatility makes polymer nanocomposites an important class of engineering materials. In order to gain detailed insights into the nanoscale mechanisms underlying their macroscopic mechanical properties, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations are a valuable tool to complement experimental studies. In this work, we modify the analytical potential functions of an efficient bead–spring model representing a generic polymer nanocomposite to account for the breaking of covalent bonds. We perform uniaxial tensile simulations of double-notched specimens and validate the model using experimental trends for overall stiffness, strength, and toughness. First, we study the effects of sample size, notch geometry, strain rate, temperature, and molar mass for the pure thermoplastic matrix material. Second, we analyze the influence of filler size and filler content on the mechanical behavior of the polymer nanocomposite. With this study, we show that in both the development of new materials and the optimization of established materials, it is possible to gain important preliminary insights into the effects of pertinent material characteristics with a simple MD setup, which can then be further refined by increasing the complexity of the material description and the boundary conditions.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Modeling and simulation; Molecular dynamics; Mechanical properties; Fracture of polymers

Malak Barakat, Hilal Reda, Panayiota Katsamba, Hassan Shraim, Vagelis Harmandaris,
Predicting mechanical heterogeneity in glassy polymer nanocomposites via an inverse computational approach based on atomistic molecular simulations and homogenization methods,
Mechanics of Materials,
Volume 197,
2024,
105082,
ISSN 0167-6636,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechmat.2024.105082.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167663624001741)
Abstract: Probing the mechanical behavior of the region formed between a nanoparticle reinforcement and a polymer matrix in a polymer nanocomposite structure, denoted as the “interphase”, is a main challenge as such regions are difficult to investigate by experimental methods. Here, we accurately characterize the heterogeneous mechanical behavior of polymer nanocomposites, focusing on polymer/nanofiller interphases via a combination of nanomechanical simulations and numerical homogenization techniques. Initially, the global mechanical performance of a glassy poly(ethylene oxide) polymer nanocomposite reinforced with silica nanoparticles is studied using detailed atomistic molecular dynamics simulations for 1.9% and 12.7% silica volume fractions. Next, the polymer/silica interphase thickness is identified by probing the polymer atom-based density distribution profile in the vicinity of the nanofiller at equilibrium. On the basis of this thickness, the interphase is subdivided to check the position-dependent change in mechanical properties. Then, using continuum mechanics and atomistic simulations, we proceed to compute the effective Young’s modulus and Poisson’s ratio of the polymer/nanoparticle interphase as function of the distance from the nanoparticle. In the last step, an inverse numerical homogenization model is proposed to predict the mechanical properties of the interphase on the basis of a comparison criteria with the data from MD. The results were found to be acceptable, raising the possibility of accurately and efficiently predicting interfacial properties in nanostructured materials.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Molecular dynamics simulations; Interphase characterization; Numerical homogenization; Mechanical properties

Zahra Mohammadpour, Mojtaba Kamankesh, Mahdieh Shokrollahi Barough, Tavia Walsh, Sadegh Ghorbanzadeh, David Hamdi, Mohsen Akbari, Yasser Zare, Kyong Yop Rhee, Amir Seyfoori,
A review on polymeric nanocomposites for the electrochemical sensing of breast cancer biomarkers,
Microchemical Journal,
Volume 195,
2023,
109528,
ISSN 0026-265X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.microc.2023.109528.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0026265X23011475)
Abstract: Breast cancer is a rapidly spreading disease and early detection of associated biomarkers in body fluids, particularly blood, is crucial. Electrochemical biosensors, known for their high sensitivity, selectivity, cost-effectiveness, and miniaturization potential, have emerged as a promising tool for breast cancer screening. This review article focuses on the integration of polymers and nanosized objects to enhance the performance of electrochemical biosensors in analyzing breast cancer biomarkers in serum samples, breast cancer cell lysates, and tumor tissues. Recent developments in this field have demonstrated the significant benefits of these sensors, including improved sensitivity and selectivity. By incorporating nanocomposites into the electrochemical sensing interface, signal amplification is achieved, resulting in enhanced detection limits and accuracy. The use of different dimensionalities of nanomaterials (0D, 1D, 2D, and 3D nanostructured interfaces) in polymer-based nanocomposites has further contributed to the development of sensors with unique properties for sensitive and rapid detection. The potential of electrochemical biosensors based on polymer nanocomposites to revolutionize disease management lies in their ability to enable user-friendly breast cancer screening and facilitate early detection. However, there are still limitations that need to be addressed, and further research is required to optimize the performance of these sensors. The article also discusses the future perspectives and real-world applications of electrochemical biosensors based on polymer nanocomposites while considering the challenges that lie ahead.
Keywords: Nanocomposite; Polymer; Breast cancer; Biosensor; Biomarker

R.J. Sengwa, Naresh Kumar,
Composition controllable multifunctionality of PVDF/PMMA/BaTiO3/OMMT based ternary and quaternary hybrid polymer nanocomposites,
Chemical Physics Impact,
Volume 7,
2023,
100281,
ISSN 2667-0224,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chphi.2023.100281.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667022423001214)
Abstract: State-of-the-art engineered multifunctional nanocomposites composed of different polymer matrices and functional nanomaterials are in high industrial demand for advances in all-solid-state flexible device technologies. Within this framework, the host matrices of poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) and its blend with poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), and the barium titanate (BaTiO3) and organo-modified montmorillonite (OMMT) clay mixed nanomaterial dispersed ternary PVDF/x wt% (BaTiO3+OMMT) and quaternary (PVDF+PMMA)/x wt% (BaTiO3+OMMT) hybrid polymer nanocomposites (HPNCs) are prepared through ultrasonicated homogenized solution casting method. The XRD patterns and FTIR transmittance spectra confirmed the composition dependent crystal phases of the PVDF and the heterogeneous polymer-polymer and polymer-nanomaterial interactions in these HPNC materials. The DSC measurements explained a huge alteration in the PVDF crystallite melting temperatures and also the degree of crystallinity of different HPNC materials. The UV–Vis absorbance of these hybrid materials depends strongly on their composition design and demonstrated dual energy band gaps attributed to host polymer matrices and the nanofillers. The dielectric permittivity dispersion in the broadband frequency range of 20 Hz − 1 GHz explains the contribution of several polarizations and relaxation processes in these complex composites, at 27 °C. Appreciably high dielectric permittivity (4 to 7) in the 20 Hz − 1 MHz range and low permittivity at the ultra high radio frequencies confirmed the promising nanodielectric characteristics of these hybrid materials. The interesting structure-property relationship, tunable energy band gaps, a wide range of composition controllable dielectric permittivity, and frequency dependent electrical conductivity revealed the usefulness of these HPNCs in making flexible-type innovative optoelectronic, capacitive energy storage, and microelectronic devices.
Keywords: Hybrid polymer nanocomposite; Nanodielectric; Dielectric permittivity; Thermal properties; Energy band gap

Zhi Li, Junjie Zou, Jian Wang, Zhonghui Shen, Baowen Li, Xin Zhang, Ce-Wen Nan,
Anisotropic reinforcement in polymer nanocomposites using dielectric-magnetic difunctional fibers,
Composites Science and Technology,
Volume 242,
2023,
110209,
ISSN 0266-3538,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compscitech.2023.110209.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0266353823003032)
Abstract: One-dimensional (1D) functional fibers have been widely used for the property enhancement of polymer nanocomposites. Modulating the orientations of fibers is crucial to maximizing the performances of the nanocomposites. In this work, we report anisotropic polymer nanocomposites enabled by dielectric-magnetic difunctional ceramic fibers, where the magnetic Fe2O3 nanoparticles (FO nps) were confined inside the dielectric ceramic fibers, to produce concurrent strong magnetism and high dielectric/piezoelectric responses. The difunctional fibers can rotate well along the direction of the external magnetic field during the nanocomposite processing, producing notable anisotropic enhancements of polymer nanocomposites. By computing the difference in magnetic and gravitational potential energy versus the internal thermal energy of the fibers that serve the alignment, we determined the optimal content of magnetic FO nps for producing a desirable alignment of fibers, while maintaining the high insulativity of nanocomposites. Finally, the resultant anisotropic polymer nanocomposites with aligned fibers present a maximum 85% enhancement in dielectric constant (ϵr) and 50% enhancement in piezoelectric coefficient (d33), compared to the nanocomposites with random fibers, while maintaining excellent elastic modulus and transmittance. Our work provides an effective strategy for the development of fiber-reinforced polymer nanocomposites with anisotropy and multi-functionality.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Ceramic fibers; Dielectric; Piezoelectric; Anisotropic

Xiaohui Li, Zehai Xu, Qin Meng, Yu Chen, Lushen Xu, Guoliang Zhang,
Synthesis of Schiff base polymer/black talc nanocomposites based on m-phenylendiamine with enhanced separation performance for lead adsorption,
Separation and Purification Technology,
Volume 341,
2024,
126874,
ISSN 1383-5866,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2024.126874.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383586624006130)
Abstract: In this study, we have developed a facile in-situ hydrothermal oxidative polymerization method to synthesize poly N,N(1,3-phenylene)dimethanimine/KH550-black talc (PNPD/KH550-BT) nanocomposites for efficient removal of lead (II) (Pb2+) in wastewater. This method employed eco-friendly solvent, offered a simple and cost-effective preparation procedure and resulted in a nanocomposite complex that displayed exceptional resistance to dissolve in various organic solvents, simplifying the separation process. Through the hydrothermal oxidative polymerization process, polymerization was promoted to generate spherical flower-like structures, effectively improving the dispersion of polymers on black talc nanosheets. Substantial concentration of sturdy lead-complexing groups was created, including N–H, –CN, and –NH2, which heightened the attraction to Pb2+ ions and maximized the effective utilization of lead binding sites. Compared with KH550-BT and PNPD, the adsorption performance of PNPD/KH550-BT composites on Pb2+ was significantly enhanced, and the largest adsorption capacity of lead (II) on PNPD/KH550-BT nanocomposites reached 867.1 mg/g. Moreover, the prepared nanocomposites had satisfactory adsorption potential after undergoing 10 cycles, showing good stability during adsorption. This work not only provides a new strategy to control the microstructure of polymer-based composite adsorbent but also presents various promising functionalized nanocomposites based on different polymers and minerals for application in vast fields.
Keywords: Nanocomposites; Black talc nanosheets; N,N(1,3-phenylene)dimethanimine; Hydrothermal oxidative polymerization; Lead adsorption

F. Van Loock, P.D. Anderson, R. Cardinaels,
A monolithic numerical model to predict the EMI shielding performance of lossy dielectric polymer nanocomposite shields in a rectangular waveguide: Design of an absorption-based sawtooth-shaped layer,
Applied Mathematical Modelling,
Volume 134,
2024,
Pages 108-125,
ISSN 0307-904X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apm.2024.05.029.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0307904X24002555)
Abstract: A three-dimensional numerical model is constructed to predict the EMI shielding performance of a polymer nanocomposite shield in a rectangular waveguide. The Helmholtz wave equation for the electric field is implemented in component form and the set of coupled equations is solved via the finite element approach. Mesh convergence and model verification is performed by comparing free space model predictions for a flat, uniform layer to benchmark solutions calculated via transfer matrix theory. The capability of the model is showcased by exploring the role of geometry on the shielding performance of a sawtooth-shaped composite layer in a rectangular waveguide. Increasing the inclusion angle of the sawtooth, which is proportional to the ratio of the sawtooth amplitude and repeat unit width, reduces the transmitted power through the shield and increases the ratio of absorption to reflection of wave power by the shield. Thus, a rational design of this sawtooth geometry allows to overcome the typical trade-off between total shielding effectiveness and wave absorption contribution, thereby resulting in highly performant absorption-dominated shields.
Keywords: Finite element model; EMI shielding; Waveguide; Polymer nanocomposite; Absorption-dominated shielding; Sawtooth layer

Ali Mohammadpour-Haratbar, Seyyed Behnam Abdollahi Boraei, Muhammad Tajammal Munir, Yasser Zare, Kyong Yop Rhee,
A model for tensile strength of cellulose nanocrystals polymer nanocomposites,
Industrial Crops and Products,
Volume 213,
2024,
118458,
ISSN 0926-6690,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indcrop.2024.118458.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0926669024004357)
Abstract: Cellulose nanocrystals (CNCs) are rod-shaped, highly crystalline, and possess a high aspect ratio, extensive surface area, and exceptional mechanical properties, making them ideal for reinforcing polymer matrices. However, few models exist for predicting the mechanical properties of CNC-based polymer nanocomposites (PNCs). Existing models often overlook the interphase's role in the mechanical performance of CNC-filled samples, leading to unreliable predictions. This study introduces a straightforward model emphasizing the interphase region and CNC properties to determine the strength of CNC-based system. The model is validated by experimental data and parametric analyses. The results indicate that interphase thickness and strength depending on the interfacial bonds between polymer chains and CNCs along with CNC volume fraction directly control the nanocomposite strength, while a larger CNC diameter diminishes it. Optimal strength in PNCs is achieved with thinner CNCs, thicker and stronger interphase, and higher CNC content. In addition, numerous experimental outputs of various samples show good fitting with model’s predictions.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Cellulose nanocrystals; Tensile strength; Mathematical model

Sherief A. Al kiey, T.S. Soliman, Mohamed Taha, A. Khalid,
Studying the structural, thermal, mechanical, and dielectric features of PVA/iron oxide@SiO2 polymer nanocomposites for electrical applications,
Materials Chemistry and Physics,
Volume 323,
2024,
129644,
ISSN 0254-0584,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matchemphys.2024.129644.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0254058424007697)
Abstract: Fe3O4@SiO2 (FS) nanocomposite was synthesized through the co-precipitation method and utilized as a filler material in the polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) matrix to obtain PVA/iron oxide@silica Fe3O4@SiO2 (PFS) films. This study presents the synthesis and characterization of flexible polymer nanocomposites comprising polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) matrices embedded with iron oxide @ silica. Through the analysis of the composite, we observed a significant enhancement in the thermal stability of the nanocomposites with increasing Fe3O4@SiO2 content. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra have been used to provide more information about the chemical state and electronic structure of the polymer film. Dielectric spectroscopy revealed notable improvements in electrical properties, including increased real electric modulus and permittivity. Mechanical investigation showed an improvement in the tensile strength, meanwhile, Young's modulus has improved from 341.2 to 1789.8 MPa, indicating that (PVA) and FS successfully complexed and interacted strongly. These findings underscore the potential of these nanocomposites for high-performance applications in energy storage devices and other fields requiring robust dielectric materials.
Keywords: PVA; Fe3O4@SiO2; Raman analysis; XPS; TGA; DSC; Dielectric permittivity

Aamir M. Shaikh, Pravin R. Kubade,
Effect of nanofillers on rolled polymer nanocomposites: A review,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
2023,
,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2023.07.346.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214785323042177)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites with a focus on nanofillers have attracted many researchers in recent years. The reason why nanocomposites show significant gains in attributes, considering various mechanical properties corresponding to impact strength, tensile strength, and wear resistance, is due to nanoscale structure of the material. Also, it improves thermal properties like thermal stability and flame retardant. These enhancements may be acquired at very low amounts of nanofiller, consequently retaining the manufacturability of polymers. The amount of property improvement depends on numerous elements like dimensions and form of nanofillers, its degree of scattering and alignment inside matrix. The interaction among the filler material and the polymer, processing techniques used for nanocomposites with rolling conditions also affect the characteristics. This paper mainly concentrates on processing of polymer nanocomposites used in rolling process with various nanofillers and associated properties.
Keywords: Nanocomposites; Nanofillers; Rolling process

Xiaodong Xia, Yang Liu, Juanjuan Zhang, Jianyang Luo, George J. Weng,
Tailoring electromagnetic interference shielding effectiveness of SiO2-decorated MWCNT/polymer nanocomposites,
Mechanics of Materials,
Volume 191,
2024,
104949,
ISSN 0167-6636,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechmat.2024.104949.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167663624000413)
Abstract: While the decorated process has been demonstrated to be a highly efficient method to tailor the electrical conductivity of multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT)-based nanocomposites, the corresponding influences on the agglomeration and electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding behaviors still remain unknown. In this paper, the decoration-dependent EMI shielding behavior of progressively agglomerated SiO2@MWCNT/polymer nanocomposites is investigated through a hierarchical homogenization scheme of electromagnetic properties in the X-band. Various microstructural features including the MWCNT waviness, progressive agglomeration, hollow structure of MWCNT and decoration-dependent functional interfacial effects have been fully considered. The multiscale theoretical prediction of decorated EMI shielding effectiveness (SE) of progressively agglomerated SiO2@MWCNT/polymer nanocomposites agrees with the experiments along a wide range of decoration thickness. The SiO2 decorated interphase is demonstrated to tune both the nonuniform distribution of MWCNTs and the functional interface effects in the nanocomposites, and therefore tailor the decoration-dependent EMI shielding performance. The effective EMI SE is revealed to first enhance with the decoration thickness, but then decreases with it. The optimal decoration thickness for high EMI SE is obtained numerically. This research provides a guidance to tailor the X-band EMI shielding performance of progressively agglomerated SiO2@MWCNT/polymer nanocomposites by the decoration process.
Keywords: SiO2@MWCNT/Polymer nanocomposite; Silica decoration; EMI shielding behavior; Progressive agglomeration; Decoration-dependent interface effect

A.A. Rahim, N.A. Shamsuri, A.A. Adam, M.F. Aziz, M.H. Hamsan, H. Rusdi, Steve Ong Jin Siong, I.M. Noor, M.F.Z. Kadir, M.F. Shukur,
Characterization of nanocomposite polyvinyl alcohol/cellulose acetate blend gel polymer electrolytes for supercapacitor application,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 97, Part B,
2024,
112964,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.112964.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24025507)
Abstract: High ionic conductivity polymer electrolyte has been introduced to replace the liquid electrolyte used in commercial energy storage devices as they have a tendency in leakage. However, the high degree of crystallinity in polymer electrolyte limits further enhancement of ionic conductivity. In this work, a nanocomposite gel polymer electrolyte system comprising polymer blend of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) – cellulose acetate (CA) with dopant lithium acetate (LiAc) salt in dimethylformamide (DMF) solvent has been prepared using solution casting method. Different concentrations of titanium dioxide (TiO2) nanofiller were added to study the effect of nanofiller on characteristics of the electrolytes. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, impedance spectroscopy (EIS), and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) were used to study the complexation between the materials, ionic conductivity, and thermal properties, respectively. The trend of the FTIR spectrum in the hydroxyl band showed that the lowered shifting wavenumber indicates a decreased crystalline phase with increasing TiO2 concentration. The highest conductivity of (3.30 ± 0.15) × 10−4 S cm−1 at room temperature was obtained with addition of 8 wt% of TiO2. DSC analysis discovered the increase in conductivity is associated with a decrease in the glass transition temperature (Tg). From transport number measurements (TNM), ions have been found to be the dominant charge carriers. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) result indicated that the most conducting electrolyte was electrochemically stable up to 2.2 V. The highest conducting electrolyte was used in the application of an electrochemical double layer capacitor (EDLC). The performance of the EDLC was characterized by cyclic voltammetry (CV) and galvanostatic charge-discharge (GCD) techniques. Specific capacitance (Csp) of the electrode obtained from CV was 26.23 F g−1 at 5 mV s−1 scan rate. The EDLC had been charged and discharged for 4600 cycles with the highest single electrode specific discharge capacitance (Cd) value of 18.01 F g−1.
Keywords: Gel polymer electrolyte; Polymer blend; Lithium acetate; Titanium dioxide; Supercapacitor

Hyun Chan Kim, Ruowen Tu, Henry A. Sodano,
Room temperature 3D printing of high-temperature engineering polymer and its nanocomposites with porosity control for multifunctional structures,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 279,
2024,
111444,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2024.111444.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836824002555)
Abstract: There is an increasing demand for the development of additive manufacturing techniques that support diverse materials with specific properties and performance characteristics. Engineering polymers are a type of high-performance material with lightweight, strong, and heat resistant. These properties enable replacing more dense materials, such as metals, and make them essential for application in various high-tech industries. Polyamide-imide (PAI) is an advanced engineering polymer with exceptional mechanical properties and thermal stability. However, due to the high glass transition temperature (Tg), the additive manufacturing of PAI 3D structures has not been realized through existing technologies. This study demonstrates room-temperature 3D printing for the PAI and PAI-based functional nanocomposite. Moreover, through a designed post-process drying procedure to control porosity, it is possible to enhance 3D structures' mechanical properties and functionality. The nanocomposite 3D systems exhibit a tensile strength of up to 105 MPa and Tg of 295 °C with aramid nanofibers, and an electrical conductivity of 200 S/m at 250 °C with carbon nanotubes. Given the high performance of printed nanocomposites with designed processes, we explore the potential and expended usage of more robust and lightweight polymer structures featuring diverse functionality for high-tech industries such as aerospace, air mobility, and semiconductor packaging.
Keywords: Polymer-matrix composites; Porosity; Mechanical properties; Aramid fiber

Li Tan, Jiufeng Dong, Li Li, Chengyuan Wang, Yuqi Liu, Yujuan Niu, Zizhao Pan, Liang Sun, Hong Wang,
In Situ polymerized polyetherimide/Al2O3 nanocomposites with significantly improved capacitive energy storage performance at high temperatures,
Journal of Materiomics,
2024,
,
ISSN 2352-8478,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmat.2024.03.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352847824000467)
Abstract: High-temperature polymer nanocomposites with high energy storage density (Ue) are promising dielectrics for capacitors used in electric vehicles, aerospace, etc. However, filler agglomeration and interface defects at high filler loadings significantly limit the enhancement of Ue and hamper the large-scale production of the nanocomposites. Here, polyetherimide (PEI) nanocomposites with nanoscale alumina (AO) at ultra-low contents were prepared via in situ polymerization from PEI monomers. We compared two composite dielectric preparation methods (in situ polymerization and ordinary solution blending) under the same conditions. In contrast to the nanocomposites obtained by blending PEI polymers with AO, the in situ nanocomposites exhibit substantially improved filler dispersion, together with largely suppressed conduction loss at high fields and high temperatures, leading to comprehensive enhancements of breakdown strength (Eb), charge-discharge efficiency (η) and Ue, simultaneously. The 0.3%(in volume) AO filled PEI nanocomposite film exhibits a superior Ue of 4.8 J/cm3 with η of 90% at 150 °C, which is 128% and 218% higher than those of pristine PEI and the ex situ PEI/AO nanocomposite film under the same conditions, respectively. This work provides a scalable strategy for the preparation of dielectrics with both good processability and excellent high-temperature energy storage performance.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; High temperature; In situ polymerization; Energy storage

Haixiao Wan, Sai Li, Yachen Wang, Zhudan Chen, Junwei He, Chunhua Li, Gengxin Liu, Jun Liu, Xiaodong Wang, Thomas P. Russell, Liqun Zhang,
All-polymer nanocomposites having superior strength, toughness and ultralow energy dissipation,
Nano Energy,
Volume 118, Part A,
2023,
108925,
ISSN 2211-2855,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2023.108925.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211285523007620)
Abstract: Toughening polymers has attracted significant interest. Traditionally, polymer toughness is enhanced by constructing polymer networks or introducing sacrificial bonds into the chains between crosslink points. These strategies, though, introduce pronounced energy dissipation and associated heat, both of which are undesirable under long-term cyclic loading, for example at the interface of implants in the human body. By incorporating single-chain nanoparticles (SCNPs) into linear polymer chains to generate all-polymer nanocomposites (APNCs), we have been able to achieve high strength, high toughness with low energy dissipation. Using a combination of simulation and experimental results, we are advancing a “SCNPs effect” where tightly cross-linked SCNPs produce a modulus contrast to achieve strengthening and toughening. Benefitting from the soft interface, the penetrable and deformable SCNPs cause the surrounding polymer chains to move in concert, significantly reducing the interfacial friction to achieve low energy dissipation. The intramolecular cross-linking of the SCNPs and adhesion between the SCNPs and polymer matrix are critical for realizing such high-performance systems. Based on a Gaussian regression model and back propagation (BP) neural network, the mechanical strength can be predicted and is supported by simulations. The APNC concept described can be applied to elastomers and gels, broadening its utilization in high-cycle and low-dissipation applications, like soft robots, flexible sensors and cartilage replacements, and artificial heart valves.
Keywords: All-polymer nanocomposites; Single-chain nanoparticles; Mechanical strength; Toughness; Energy dissipation

Shengwen Kong, Chuangqi Zhao, Yingzhi Sun, Jin Huang, Longhao Zhang, Yunfei Ru, Hangsheng Zhou, Tianxu Zhou, Mingjie Liu,
Large-area, high-strength cellulose nanocomposites enhanced by confined polymer nanocrystallization in Bouligand structures,
Matter,
Volume 7, Issue 6,
2024,
Pages 2250-2264,
ISSN 2590-2385,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matt.2024.04.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590238524001693)
Abstract: Summary
Sustainable and biodegradable materials derived from biomass are appealing candidates to replace fossil-based materials. However, the mechanical performance of biomass is insufficient for practical applications. Here, inspired by fish scales, we report a strategy to construct large-area, high-strength cellulose nanocrystal (CNC) nanocomposites with confined polymer nanocrystallization in Bouligand structures. By regulating the electrostatic repulsion of CNCs, the spacing of nanorods was reduced from 8.8 ± 0.4 to 5.0 ± 0.3 nm, and the crystallinity of the interphase extended polymer chains was regulated within such a confined space. The resulting nanocomposite films exhibited a tensile strength of 456.6 ± 18.6 MPa. Moreover, the nanocomposite films could be laminated to bulk materials, which exhibit excellent fracture toughness of 7.1 ± 0.2 MPa m1/2 and hardness of 6.1 ± 0.6 GPa while being light in weight. This efficient cellulose utilization strategy offered a promising pathway for the production of robust, biodegradable, and sustainable cellulosic bioplastics.
Keywords: biomimetic materials; Bouligand structures; confined polymer nanocrystallization; nanocomposites; cellulose nanocrystals; sustainable materials

Chuanwei Miao, Michelle Zhao, Wadood Y. Hamad,
Cellulose nanocrystal/polymer nanocomposite latex via surfactant-free emulsion polymerization,
Colloids and Surfaces A: Physicochemical and Engineering Aspects,
Volume 675,
2023,
131929,
ISSN 0927-7757,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfa.2023.131929.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0927775723010130)
Abstract: Polar cellulose nanocrystals (CNCs) are difficult to disperse well in hydrophobic polymer matrices, and usually surfactants or expensive and time-consuming functionalization of the reinforcement or matrix have been attempted to improve dispersion. Here, we report a new, facile method to prepare CNC/polymer nanocomposite latices directly via surfactant-free emulsion polymerization of vinyl monomers and CNCs initiated by a cationic, water-soluble, free-radical initiator. The distribution of CNCs in the latex particles can be tailored through controlling the reaction procedures, namely, whether the monomers are added before or after preheating the CNCs with the initiator and has been confirmed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and scanning transmission X-ray microscopy (STXM) studies. CNCs distribute inside the latex particles if the monomers are added after the preheating step, and owing to the more even distribution of CNCs, such nanocomposite latices exhibit better mechanical properties than those prepared without preheating or via physically mixing CNCs with emulsions polymerized using conventional surfactant system. A latex particle formation mechanism is proposed based on these phenomena and polymerization kinetics studied in this work. Unlike typical CNC-based Pickering emulsion polymerization, our process can be operated without the need for intense mechanical shearing and provide an industrially scalable approach to prepare stable CNC/polymer nanocomposite latices that can be melt processed or used directly in a variety of applications, such as paints and coatings, adhesives, or cosmetics.
Keywords: Cellulose nanocrystals; Cationic initiator; Emulsion polymerization; Nanocomposites

Surendra Kumar,
Investigating effect of CNT agglomeration in CNT/polymer nanocomposites using multiscale finite element method,
Mechanics of Materials,
Volume 183,
2023,
104706,
ISSN 0167-6636,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechmat.2023.104706.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167663623001527)
Abstract: A multiscale finite element model based on molecular structural mechanics is developed in this paper to investigate the effect of CNT agglomeration on the bulk elastic properties of CNT-reinforced polymer nanocomposites. In this model, both the CNTs and the interphases (among the CNTs as well as between the CNTs and the matrix) are introduced as discrete structures into a representative volume element (RVE) of the nanocomposite. The surrounding polymer in the RVE is considered a continuum medium; however, the parameters for the non-bonded interactions between the CNT and the polymer are calculated based on the atomic structure of the polymer, and the nodal density of the finite element mesh is kept to be the same as the atomic density of the polymer. Nanocomposites having different combinations of single-walled CNT and the polymer at different volume fractions of CNT are studied. The model is first applied to nanocomposites reinforced with single CNTs and validated using published results. The model is then used to investigate the effects of CNT agglomeration on the effective elastic properties of nanocomposites consisting of both long and short CNTs.
Keywords: Carbon nanotube (CNT); Nanocomposite; CNT agglomeration; Molecular structural mechanics; Finite element method

Yash Senjaliya, Nisha Oad, Subhendu Chakroborty, Brijesh Tripathi, Prakash Chandra, Pankaj Kumar Tripathi, Ankur Solanki, Ibrahim A. Darwish, Sheetal Rawat, Arundhati Barik, Rahul Kapadia, Nidhi Asthana,
Rare Earth metal oxide nanoparticle-infused polymer nanocomposites for enhanced supercapacitor electrodes,
Journal of Molecular Structure,
Volume 1307,
2024,
137919,
ISSN 0022-2860,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molstruc.2024.137919.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022286024004423)
Abstract: The contemporary energy shortage has spurred scientists to explore other options. In this regard, there's significant interest in utilizing electrochemical energy sources for converting and storing energy. Here, a fresh endeavor involves utilizing a set of semiconducting rare earth Gd2O3/conducting polymers (CP) (CP= polypyrrole, polyindole) for energy storage purposes. The synthesis method involves the straightforward oxidative polymerization of either indole or pyrrole to produce Gd2O3/PIn or Gd2O3/PPy, respectively. The integrity of the garnets synthesized was verified through XRD, Raman, XPS, FESEM, and TEM analysis, ensuring their phase purity and morphology. The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis reveals the particle morphology, with sizes ranging from 100 to 800 nanometers. FTIR and Raman spectroscopy further validate the integration of Gd2O3 into the conducting polymer matrix. XRD shows broad peaks for amorphous structures in Gd2O3/PPy and Gd2O3/PIn nanocomposites. To evaluate its performance in supercapacitors, cyclic voltammetry (CV), galvanostatic charge-discharge (GCD), and impedance spectroscopy (EIS) were employed using a three-electrode configuration. The rectangular CV curves indicate the pseudo-capacitance mechanism of the Gd2O3/CP nanocomposite-coated carbon fiber electrode in an H2SO4 electrolyte. Specific capacitance (SC) values for Gd2O3/PPy and Gd2O3/PIn binary nanocomposite electrodes are determined as 341.61 F/g and 305.56 F/g, respectively, from GCD curves. In hybrid energy systems, especially electric automobiles, the Gd2O3/PPy and Gd2O3/PIn nanocomposite-coated carbon fiber electrode has a potential of up to 1.8 V and short charging and discharging durations, implying fast-charging and extended lifespan. The easy oxidative polymerization process utilized to produce gadolinium oxide/conducting polymer nanocomposites for supercapacitors is the main breakthrough of this research.
Keywords: Energy storage; Conducting polymers; Gadolinium oxide; Gravimetric capacitance; Energy density; Power density

Sachin M. Shet, Pranav Bharadwaj, Dibyendu Mondal, S.K. Nataraj,
Metal-Based Polymeric Nanocomposite Membranes for Water Disinfection,
Reference Module in Materials Science and Materials Engineering,
Elsevier,
2024,
,
ISBN 9780128035818,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-323-95486-0.00032-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780323954860000326)
Abstract: Membranes made of metal-based polymeric nanocomposites have been developed as a promising water disinfection technology. These membranes provide outstanding antibacterial characteristics and mechanical strength by combining the advantages of metals and polymers. These membranes contain metal-based particles made of zinc oxide, copper, and silver. Because of these metals' outstanding antibacterial qualities, water disinfection has frequently used them. They can provide a shield on the membrane's surface when added into polymeric matrices, inhibiting bacterial growth, and spread. These membranes contain polymeric matrices made of polyethylene glycol (PEG), polyethersulfone (PES) and polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF). These polymers help keep the metal-based particles on the membrane surface while also giving the membrane the requisite mechanical strength. These membranes are made by mixing metal-based particles into a polymer solution, then casting the mixture onto a support membrane. By successfully removing bacteria and other microbes from water, the resulting composite membrane can produce safe drinking water. The fact that metal-based polymeric nanocomposite membranes can easily scaled up for commercial production is one of its benefits. They are also more resilient and last longer than traditional membrane filters. In conclusion, metal-based polymeric nanocomposite membranes present a promising approach to water sanitization, with potential applications in both home and commercial settings.
Keywords: Polymer; Nanocomposite; Membrane; Water disinfection

Panagiotis A. Klonos, Rizos D. Bikiaris, Zoi Terzopoulou, Konstantina Mouchlianiti, Konstantinos Tsachouridis, Antonios D. Anastasiou, Apostolos Kyritsis, George Z. Kyzas,
Structure-properties relationships in new polymer nanocomposites based on the renewable poly(butylene succinate) filled with low amounts of nanoparticles of 1-3D geometries,
Polymer,
Volume 296,
2024,
126841,
ISSN 0032-3861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2024.126841.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0032386124001769)
Abstract: A series of polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) based on the renewable poly(butylene-succinate) (PBSu) reinforced with 1 wt% of different nanoparticles (NP), namely, silica (SiO2), montmorillonite (MMT), graphene oxide (GO) and carbon nanotubes (CNT), were synthesized and studied herein. The investigation focuses on both the direct and indirect NP effects on the interfacial interactions, thermal transitions, crystallinity, electrical and thermal conductivity, mechanical properties and molecular dynamics. For that, a sum of complementary techniques was employed, regarding both the structure and performance. The clearly direct effect is related to the promotion of crystal nucleation at the presence of both particles, related to the fillers’ dimensionality (aspect ratio) and the non-worth noting interfacial interactions. The degree of crystallinity of PBSu mildly increases, whereas the semicrystalline morphology (sizes, numbers, distributions of the crystals) is systematically denser in the PNCs. In agreement with previous findings on PBSu, the polymer cannot be preserved amorphous, at least by conventional methods. Consequently, the macroscopic properties, namely, the thermal diffusivity/conductivity as well as the mechanical performance were found connected to crystallinity, in particular, to the semicrystalline morphology (indirect filler effect). PBSu/CNT was surprisingly found electrically conductive, despite the low CNT loading, whereas the rest of the samples are insulating. The molecular dynamics map was constructed here for the first time, obviously only for the semicrystalline state. The cooperativity of PBSu chains drops in the PNCs, most probably, affected by the dense semicrystalline structures that seem to impose an increase in the free volume of the amorphous polymer fraction. Overall, the PBSu PNCs were found to offer potentials for wide range manipulation of properties, via relatively mild processing (synthesis, thermal treatments).
Keywords: poly(butylene succinate); Polymer nanocomposites; Structure properties relationships

Ali Mohammadpour-Haratbar, Yasser Zare, Nima Gharib, Kyong Yop Rhee,
Effect of interphase region on the Young's modulus of polymer nanocomposites reinforced with cellulose nanocrystals,
Surfaces and Interfaces,
Volume 39,
2023,
102922,
ISSN 2468-0230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2023.102922.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468023023002924)
Abstract: Cellulose nanocrystals (CNCs) are rod-like and highly crystalline nanofillers reinforcing polymer matrices because of their high aspect ratio, high surface area, and great Young's modulus. However, there is no simple methodology estimating the Young's modulus of polymer CNC samples. In this study, Young's modulus of polymer composites containing CNCs is predicted using a simple model. This model is validated by some experimental results of various samples. Young's modulus calculations by this model agree with measured values. Moreover, the effects of various factors such as interphase thickness, volume fraction of interphase regions, densities of polymer matrix and CNC, and CNC size on the Young's modulus of samples are examined by the current model. Thinner CNCs significantly improve the Young's modulus of polymer nanocomposite (PNC). Furthermore, thicker interphase causes a higher Young's modulus. Among the mentioned parameters, CNC radius and interphase thickness have the most important effects on the nanocomposite modulus, while the volume fraction of interphase areas causes the least influence.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Cellulose nanocrystal; Mechanical properties; Model

S.B. Dangi, N.S. Leel, A.M. Quraishi, S.Z. Hashmi, Shalendra Kumar, Saurabh Dalela, Jasgurpreet Singh, B.L. Choudhary, M. Ayaz Ahmad, P.A. Alvi,
Poly(vinyl alcohol)/reduced graphene oxide (rGO) polymer nanocomposites: Ecological preparation and application-oriented characterizations,
Optical Materials,
Volume 148,
2024,
114965,
ISSN 0925-3467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optmat.2024.114965.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925346724001423)
Abstract: This study focuses on the examinations and fabrication process of polymer nanocomposite (PNC) films comprising polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) and reduced graphene oxide (rGO) with different weight percentages of rGO. The preparation method involves a simple solution mixing and casting technique. Additionally, the presented research explores various aspects such as spectroscopic analysis, surface morphology evaluation, structural investigation, optical characterization, photoluminescence and FTIR behaviour assessment. X-ray diffractometer (XRD) is used to get structural information (quantifying the micro-strain and crystalline size via W–H plots). The crystalline size has range from ∼77 nm to 85 nm and micro-strain in the rage of (11.82 × 10−4 to10.04 × 10−4). Using FTIR, the presence of functional groups and their function in nanocomposites are also investigated. FESEM (with EDAX) is used to evaluate surface morphology, and the impact of rGO on the surface roughness of the nanocomposite film. Using a UV–Vis–NIR spectrophotometer, the optical parameters (refractive index, optical bandgap and Urbach energy) are assessed. The tuning of the optical bandgap, refractive index and Urbach energy has range from 4.57 eV to 2.67 eV; 2.06 to 2.49 and 0.56 to 1.23; for the 1, 2 and 3 wt% of rGO nanofiller, respectively, in the composites. The impact of wt.% of rGO on the PL spectra has been studied and variations in the colour co-ordinates, CRI, CCT, λd (dominant wavelength) and colour purity have been investigated. On behalf of investigation results, the prepared PNCs may be appropriate in fabricating the heterostructures based optoelectronic devices.
Keywords: Polyvinyl alcohol; Polymer nanocomposites; Graphene oxide; Photoluminescence; Optical properties

Chandra Prabha Charan, R.J. Sengwa, Mukul Saraswat,
Synergistic effect of polymer blend compositions on the structural, thermal, optical, and broadband dielectric properties of P(VDF-HFP)/PEO/ZnO polymer nanocomposites,
Chemical Physics Impact,
Volume 8,
2024,
100410,
ISSN 2667-0224,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chphi.2023.100410.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667022423002499)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) composed of poly(vinylidene fluoride-co-hexafluoropropylene) (P(VDF-HFP))/ poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO) blend host matrix of varying compositions i.e., xP(VDF-HFP)/(100–x)PEO with x values 20, 50, and 80 wt%, and zinc oxide (ZnO) as nanofiller (2 wt%) are prepared by state-of-the-art homogenized solution cast method. The SEM micro-images of these PNC films revealed that the polymer blend compositions considerably affect the polymers miscibility, spherulitic morphologies, and crystalline phases. FTIR spectra demonstrated that the P(VDF-HFP) and PEO chain interactions in these PNCs change significantly with the polymer blend compositions. The DSC results revealed a decrease in PEO crystallite temperature and degree of crystallinity with the increase of P(VDF-HFP) amount in the blend matrix of these PNC materials. Analysis of UV-Vis spectra categorized these PNCs of wide band gap (∼ 3.1 eV) semiconductive optical materials. Broadband frequency range (20 Hz–1 GHz) dielectric dispersion demonstrated that 50P(VDF-HFP)/50PEO-2 wt% ZnO composition based nanodielectric film has a relatively high dielectric constant, whereas the chain segmental and dipolar reorientation relaxation processes are strongly polymer blend composition dependent for these PNC materials. The experimental results are discussed in detail concerning the multifunctionality of these PNCs as promising candidates for innovation in flexible optoelectronic and nanodielectric-based microelectronic devices.
Keywords: P(VDF-HFP)/PEO blend; ZnO nanomaterial; Polymer nanocomposites; Energy band gap; Degree of crystallinity; Broadband dielectric properties

Abhiram B.R., Debraj Ghosh,
Influence of nanofiller agglomeration on fracture properties of polymer nanocomposite: Insights from atomistic simulation,
Engineering Fracture Mechanics,
Volume 290,
2023,
109503,
ISSN 0013-7944,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engfracmech.2023.109503.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0013794423004617)
Abstract: Nanofillers tend to agglomerate inside the matrix of a polymer nanocomposite (PNC). Crack propagation mechanism gets modified in various ways near these agglomerated regions, which adversely affects the performance of nanocomposite. While such observations are reported in the literature, a detailed atomistic-scale study quantifying and analyzing these changes in fracture properties has not been reported. Reactive molecular dynamics simulations are conducted in this work to study the effects of agglomeration on fracture properties. The model material here is polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) with carbon nanotube (CNT) reinforcement. Generally functionalization improves the resistance of PNC to crack propagation due to enhanced interfacial bonding. However, for agglomerated CNTs even functionalization does not improve the fracture toughness, since the crack propagates completely through the polymer matrix. Thus the CNTs do not participate in resisting the crack. Furthermore, the shear strain distribution along the CNT surface revealed that the CNTs and the polymer surrounding them act as a monolithic unit, resulting in reduction in fracture toughness and ductility. The agglomerated CNTs are also found to contribute towards strain accumulation and failure of PNC at a lower global strain level. These atomic-scale insights help in better understanding of damage mechanics of a PNC.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Molecular dynamics; Agglomeration; Fracture toughness; Functionalization

Visakh V Mohan, R.B. Rakhi,
WS2/Conducting polymer nanocomposite-based flexible and binder-free electrodes for high-performance supercapacitors,
Electrochimica Acta,
Volume 498,
2024,
144657,
ISSN 0013-4686,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2024.144657.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0013468624008971)
Abstract: WS2 has attracted considerable research attention as an exceptional electrode material for energy storage applications. Herein, we report the synthesis and electrochemical performance of WS2/conducting polymer-based binary nanocomposites. WS2 nanosheets are synthesized by a simple hydrothermal process. The surface modification of the nanosheets with Polypyrrole (PPy) and Polyaniline (PANI) by an in-situ oxidative polymerization technique results in the formation of WS2/PPy and WS2/PANI nanocomposites. Symmetric supercapacitors have been fabricated using WS2/PPy and WS2/PANI nanocomposite electrodes. Electrochemical performance studies conducted in symmetric two-electrode configuration demonstrate that at 1 Ag−1 the WS2/PANI electrode achieves a specific capacitance of 560 Fg−1, outperforming both WS2/PPy (400 Fg−1) and pure WS2 (130 Fg−1) supercapacitors. Additionally, the WS2/PANI symmetric supercapacitor exhibits a specific energy of 50 Wh kg−1 at a specific power of 0.8 kW kg−1. The WS2/PANI and WS2/PPy electrode materials demonstrate a capacitance retention of 93 % and 90 % respectively after 10,000 consecutive GCD cycles. This research underscores the potential of WS2-polymer nanocomposites as effective electrode materials for supercapacitors.
Keywords: Symmetric supercapacitor; WS2/PPy; WS2/PANI; WS2 nanosheets; Specific capacitance

Momina Momina, Kafeel Ahmad, Zahid A. Khan,
Facile synthesis of biomass derived economically viable carbon dot polymer nanocomposite: A perspective towards sustainable removal of dyes from synthetic wastewater,
Journal of Water Process Engineering,
Volume 58,
2024,
104748,
ISSN 2214-7144,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jwpe.2023.104748.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214714423012680)
Abstract: In this study, a sustainable carbon dot-based polymer nanocomposite was synthesized for the removal of organic contaminants, such as dyes, with the aim of addressing environmental concerns. Throughout the formulation process of polymer nanocomposites, the agglomeration of nanoparticles in the polymer matrix poses a difficult challenge. Therefore, iron oxide particles after coating with carbon dots particles were seamlessly integrated into the polymer matrix. The chemical, physical, optical, and thermal stabilities of the formulated composites were studied (FTIR, XRD, FESEM/TEM, EDX, UV–vis, AFM, and fluorescence analyses), which showed the uniform dispersion of nanoparticles on the polymer matrix. This approach of synthesizing composites using naturally derived materials will contribute to the decomposition of used adsorbents, promoting environmentally conscious and sustainable product practices. Furthermore, this research also focuses on significant adsorption parameters and their optimization using the Taguchi design approach for wastewater remediation. Validation of the adsorption process by isotherm study showed that the maximum adsorption capacity of PANI-FOCD was 462.96 mg/g. In addition, the performance of the composite was analyzed in terms of its economic feasibility and continuous adsorption efficiency, which ensured its sustainability in practical applications.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Carbon dots; Taguchi design; Optimization; Fixed-bed adsorption; Economic viability; Adsorption

A. Fernández-Tena, I. Calafel, I. Otaegi, G. Guerrica-Echevarria, A.J. Müller, N. Aranburu,
Production of supertough and semiconductive PLA-based polymer blend nanocomposites by kinetic microstructural control,
Polymer,
Volume 296,
2024,
126813,
ISSN 0032-3861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2024.126813.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0032386124001484)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites with superior multi-functional properties can be fabricated by tuning their morphology. In this work, a supertough and semiconductive polylactide (PLA)-based polymer blend nanocomposite (PBNANO) was produced for the first time via melt blending with a core-shell rubber (CSR) and carbon nanotubes (CNT). Reference binary blends (PLA/CSR and PLA/CNT) revealed that, when added separately, 20 wt% of CSR and 0.25 wt% of CNT were the suitable quantities to achieve a supertough and a semiconductive PLA-based material, respectively. Based on the obtained results, PLA/CSR/CNT PBNANOs with 20 wt% of CSR and CNT amounts between 0.15 and 0.50 wt% were prepared in one extrusion step. Although supertoughness was achieved in all the cases, the PBNANOs were insulating due to the selective localization of the CNT in the poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) shell of the CSR and the good dispersion of the CSR nanoparticles. However, a supertough and semiconductive PLA-based PBNANO was obtained by a two-step melt compounding. Using this processing sequence, a worse dispersion of the CSR was obtained, allowing contact between some CSR nanoparticles. The differences in PBNANOs morphology prepared in one or two extrusion steps were determined by TEM and corroborated by rheological measurements. In the case of the two extrusion steps PBNANO, the CNT were located in both the PLA matrix and in the shell of the CSR. This morphological change enabled the PBNANO to be conductive, as the CNT percolation was achieved in this case while still remaining supertough.
Keywords: Poly(lactide); PBNANOs; Carbon nanotubes; Supertoughness; Electrical conductivity; Processing steps

Wenzhi Cui, Jing Liu, Wei You, Wei Yu,
Mechanical reinforcement by bridging chains in polymer nanocomposites,
Polymer,
Volume 306,
2024,
127208,
ISSN 0032-3861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2024.127208.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0032386124005445)
Abstract: The adsorption-induced bridging of polymer chains between adjacent nanoparticles was studied in poly(vinyl acetate)/silica nanocomposites with different polymer molecular weights, interaction strengths, nanoparticle sizes, and silica loading fractions. The polymer bridging contribution is successfully decoupled from the apparent rubbery plateau modulus by subtracting the hydrodynamic and trapped chain entanglement contributions. The bridging modulus depends on the nearest interparticle surface distance through a power-law relation with a universal exponent −3. Polymer molecular weight can enhance the bridging modulus only when nanoparticles have a high density of adsorption sites due to the emergence of direct bridging of multiple particles by one chain in addition to the regular bridging through self-similar carpets. Our results illustrate that bridging chains can dominate modulus enhancement at nanoparticle's loading at about 10 vol% in polymer nanocomposites with long polymer chains and high surface silanol density.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Mechanical reinforcement; Polymer bridge

Mehwish Arshad, Tariq Yasin, Talib K. Ibrahim, Nabil Al-Zaqri, Ismail Warad, Ehtisham Rahim, Ziaur Rehman,
Photocatalytic reduction of aqueous carcinogenic pollutants on CdS-polymer nanocomposites,
Materials Chemistry and Physics,
Volume 318,
2024,
129261,
ISSN 0254-0584,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matchemphys.2024.129261.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0254058424003869)
Abstract: Water decontamination from the toxic effluents, for the safe use of human, is the hottest area of research nowadays. 4-nitrophenol and Cr(VI) are the two pollutants of high environmental concern due to their toxic and carcinogenic nature. Furthermore, their remediation is a laborious, time consuming and challenging task. In this context, photocatalysis is believed to be an efficient and safe remediation process, however, photocatalysts suffer from inferior stability and efficiency. Similar problems are also associated with CdS, which is considered a low cost and visible light absorbing material. To improve efficiency and stability of CdS, the CdS-polymer nanocomposites were prepared by the deposition of CdS on the polymeric beads (CS/PVA/TEOS) at ambient conditions. CdS-polymer nanocomposites were observed to be better photocatalysts under solar light than the bare CdS for the reduction of {4-nitrophenol and Cr(VI)} carcinogens. The photoreduction followed pseudo first order kinetics. Notably, the rate of photoreduction was observed to increase with an increase in the percentage of degree of deacetylation (DDA) of the chitosan polymer. Among the four synthesized catalysts, the B4/CdS presented the best catalytic efficiency: Cr(VI) reduced in 4 min with TOF = 6.4 × 10−3 mmol Cr(VI)/(mgcat.⋅min), ΔH# = 5.008 kJ/mol and ΔS# = - 0.856 kJ/mol.K and 4-NP in 8 min with TOF = 4.1 × 10−2 mmol 4-NP/(mgcat.⋅min), ΔS# = - 2.817 kJ/mol.K and enthalpy ΔH# = 14.26 kJ/mol. The effect of various parameters: temperature, pH and catalytic dose was also investigated to assess the optimal conditions for photocatalysis. It is anticipated that a unique combination of chitosan polymer and CdS might offer efficient adsorption and electron transfer, which ultimately triggered the reduction.
Keywords: CdS-polymer nanocomposites; Photocatalysis; Water decontamination; 4-Nitrophenol; Cr(VI)

Pratyusha S․, P. Latha, Rudramamba K․S, M. Rami Reddy, Mamatha Nakka,
Structural, optical, and dielectric properties of aminated PMMA/GO polymer nanocomposite for storage device applications,
Journal of Molecular Structure,
Volume 1315,
2024,
138759,
ISSN 0022-2860,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molstruc.2024.138759.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002228602401278X)
Abstract: A series of aminated PMMA/GO polymer nanocomposite (PNG) were synthesized by solution mixing in two step process. The synthesized PNG samples were analysed using X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDAX), Thermo-gravimetric, differential thermal analysis (TG-DTA), UV–Visible spectroscopy (UV–Vis) and impedance spectroscopy. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) data indicated the existence of crystalline nature in PMMA and the reduction of graphene oxide (GO) which is also confirmed by TGA and DTA results. The interaction between graphene oxide nanoparticles and the functionalized polymer matrix has been validated using FTIR investigations. The SEM and EDAX measurements demonstrated the homogeneous dispersion of graphene oxide (GO) over the surface of the produced samples. The UV–Vis spectroscopy analysis revealed that the optical energy gap values of nano composites decrease as the amount of graphene oxide nanoparticles increases. All samples exhibited higher relative permittivity at low frequencies which is a key factor for high energy density. As the concentration of GO increases, the maximum peak of dielectric loss tangent also shifted to higher frequency due to increase in interfaces. The β relaxation is dominant in non-polar PMMA due to the functionalisation and dispersion of GO. The AC conductivity values increased with increase in concentration of GO. The single semicircle in plot from impedance spectroscopy and the drop in bulk resistance values of PNG samples made them as a good material for energy storage devices like supercapacitors.
Keywords: Functionalized PMMA/GO nanocomposite; Crystallinity; GO reduction; Thermal stability; Relative permittivity; Dielectric loss

Qurat Ul Ain, M.F. Wani, Rakesh Sehgal, Manjesh Kumar Singh,
Insights into nanomechanical and nanotribological characterization of cross-linked polymer nanocomposites via molecular dynamics simulation,
Tribology International,
Volume 191,
2024,
109174,
ISSN 0301-679X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.triboint.2023.109174.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301679X23009659)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) representing the cutting-edge domain of research have been exploited through indentation with experimentation and simulation. However, comprehending the underlying deformation mechanism via indentation in PNCs is still an open question. The present study emphasis on the influence of incorporating different sizes of nanoparticles (NPs) with varied volume fraction to regulate and improve mechanical and tribological properties of PNCs through molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. The coarse-grained MD simulations for nanoindentation and nanoscratching of crosslinked polymer network without and with NPs are performed. The identification of static and dynamic properties reveals the domains of dispersion and agglomeration with structural conformations in the PNCs. The NPs act as promising reinforcements that significantly strengthen the polymer system through improvement in mechanical and tribological properties. Further the analysis of curing percentage and bond breakage play vital role in locating stress induced sites during indentation. From MD simulations, the prominent improvement in deformation resistance is shown with particles exhibiting least radius of 1.5σ and 2.5σ which enhances with increase in volume fraction of NPs. The observations evoke the fact that presence of NPs reduce coefficient of friction (cof) and diminishes the resistance against scratch which generates higher shear strain in polymer chains. The main aim of this study is to provide design rule for incorporation of NPs coordinated towards tuning mechanical and tribological performance of PNCs. Additionally, insights into the deformation and nanoscratching mechanisms are highlighted providing directions to confer multi-functionalities to advanced PNCs.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Coarse grained molecular dynamics; Nanotribology; Atomic shear strain

Malak Barakat, Hilal Reda, Anthony Chazirakis, Vagelis Harmandaris,
Investigating the mechanical performance of graphene reinforced polymer nanocomposites via atomistic and continuum simulation approaches,
Polymer,
Volume 286,
2023,
126379,
ISSN 0032-3861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2023.126379.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0032386123007097)
Abstract: Graphene, having exceptional mechanical properties, is expected to improve the overall mechanical performance of polymer nanocomposites when inserted as a nanofiller. In this work, the mechanical properties of graphene-based cis-1,4-polybutadiene glassy polymer nanocomposites are investigated via a hierarchical multiscale approach, combining atomistic simulations and continuum mechanics. The global mechanical properties of the graphene-based polymer nanocomposites are computed via a rich enough set of remote applied deformations. On a localized level, the effective Young's modulus and Poisson's ratio are calculated in both the interphase and polymer matrix regions where the former shows greater rigidity. Finally, the properties of the different phases forming the heterogeneous polymer nanocomposite are used to develop a continuum three-phase micromechanical finite element model for predicting the overall mechanical behavior of the structure, which are found to be in very good agreement with the results from the atomistic MD simulations.
Keywords: Graphene; Polymer nanocomposites; Atomistic molecular dynamics simulations; Interphase characterization; Multiscale modeling; Nanomechanics

Wonseok Lee, Taewoo Yoo, Kyungmin Baek, Maenghyo Cho, Hayoung Chung, Hyunseong Shin, Yun Seog Lee,
Strain rate effects on fracture toughness of polymer nanocomposites: A multiscale study,
Engineering Fracture Mechanics,
Volume 298,
2024,
109924,
ISSN 0013-7944,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engfracmech.2024.109924.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0013794424000870)
Abstract: We propose a multiscale framework to predict the fracture toughness enhancement in polymer nanocomposites at various strain rates considering the interfacial debonding and subsequent plastic yielding of the matrix mechanisms. The elasto-plastic behavior of pure polymer and polymer nanocomposite is characterized at different strain rates via molecular dynamics simulation, and the fracture toughness enhancement are computed using a multiscale bridging approach via the finite element simulation and linear elastic fracture mechanics. The predicted results show that the toughness enhancement is affected by the strain rate and interfacial characteristics, and that it agrees well with the experimental results. These findings is expected to provide guidelines for predicting the fracture toughness of nanocomposites under various strain rate conditions, as well as insights into the customization of interfacial characteristics for the target toughness.
Keywords: Polymer-matrix composites (PMCs); Multiscale modeling; Fracture toughness; Debonding; Toughness

Maximilian Ries, Sebastian Reber, Paul Steinmann, Sebastian Pfaller,
Extending a generic and fast coarse-grained molecular dynamics model to examine the mechanical behavior of grafted polymer nanocomposites,
Forces in Mechanics,
Volume 12,
2023,
100207,
ISSN 2666-3597,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.finmec.2023.100207.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666359723000422)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites are an important class of materials for engineering applications due to their high versatility and good mechanical properties combined with low density. By directly attaching the polymer chains to the nanofillers, the so-called grafting, a better load transfer between matrix and filler is achieved, and, in addition, a better dispersion of the fillers is obtained. Both result in enhanced mechanical properties. Since experimental investigations on the nanoscale are extremely challenging, complementary numerical studies are needed to unravel the mechanical behavior of polymer nanocomposites. To this end, molecular dynamics is ideally suited since it captures the microstructure, but is also numerically expensive. Therefore, this contribution presents a fast coarse-grained molecular dynamics model for the investigation of the mechanical behavior of grafted polymer nanocomposites. For this purpose, we extend an existing model by grafting bonds, which allows us to compare the effect of untreated and grafted fillers directly. In particular, we investigate the influence of filler content, grafting degree, and filler size on the stiffness and strength of the polymer (grafted) nanocomposites. We conclude that the grafting bonds have little effect on the stiffness, while the strength is significantly improved compared to the untreated fillers, which is in agreement with the literature. The presented molecular dynamics model for polymer grafted nanocomposites provides the basis for further investigations, particularly of the crucial matrix-filler interphase. In addition, this contribution translates molecular dynamics insights into mechanical properties, which bridges the gap to the engineering scale and thus represents a step towards exploiting the full potential of polymer (grafted) nanocomposites.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Grafted polymer nanocomposites; Mechanical properties; Modeling and simulation; Coarse graining; Molecular dynamics

Qing Ma, Dan Xing, Bin Hao, Peng-Cheng Ma,
Interfacial engineering strategy to improve the piezoresistive performance of polymer nanocomposites via chemical bonding of carbon nanotubes on graphene,
Composites Part A: Applied Science and Manufacturing,
Volume 174,
2023,
107730,
ISSN 1359-835X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesa.2023.107730.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359835X23003068)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites have been extensively employed in the preparation of piezoresistive sensor. The non-linear characteristic of electrical response under the mechanical force was a big hurdle for the application of existing sensors for stress monitoring. Herein, we reported nanocomposites composed of carbon nanotubes (CNTs)/graphene hybrid aerogel as conductive network and interpenetrated polydimethylsiloxane as matrix. CNTs and graphene were chemically connected via in-situ growth of nanotubes on the sheet of graphene through chemical vapor deposition method, and the hybrid aerogel improved the interfacial interaction between conductive network and polymer matrix. The developed nanocomposites showed high sensitivity and outstanding linear dependence on the applied stress to the material. The mechanism of such excellent performance was revealed by in-situ observation on the deformation of nanocomposites with a micromechanical testing device.
Keywords: A: Carbon nanotubes and nanofibers; A: Graphene; B. Mechanical properties; B: Electrical properties

Lu Ye, Jun Wei, Changning Ran, Jianjun Zhang, Yue Zhang, Sude Ma,
PVDF/PI/BT nanocomposites with excellent charge/discharge efficiency obtained by inserting linear polymer to adjust the ferroelectricity,
Colloids and Surfaces A: Physicochemical and Engineering Aspects,
Volume 688,
2024,
133653,
ISSN 0927-7757,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfa.2024.133653.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0927775724005144)
Abstract: The problem of low charge/discharge efficiency of ceramic/polymer composites is still one of the hot topics in current research on dielectric materials. Here, we demonstrate that the ferroelectric property of ceramic/PVDF-based composites can be modulated by the introduction of linear polymer PI and the use of a spin-coating process. PI inhibits some polarization and partial dipole orientation by interacting with the molecular chains of the amorphous phase of PVDF and BT nanoparticles. As a result, the decrease in crystallinity and loss led to improved dielectric properties and charge/discharge efficiency. The findings demonstrate that the microstructure of PVDF-PI/BT nanocomposite is uniform and dense, with outstanding dielectric characteristics and high charge/discharge efficiency. The permittivities were stabilized in the range of 12.87–17.86 at 100 Hz, and the dielectric losses were all less than 0.27. Compared with the previously reported binary ceramic/polymer composites, the PVDF-PI/BT nanocomposites possessed a high charge/discharge efficiency with a small variation (63%-84%). This work offers an easy and efficient scheme to obtain nanocomposites with outstanding dielectric characteristics and charge/discharge efficiency. It may be a potential candidate for flexible dielectric substrates for advanced flexible capacitive energy storage devices.
Keywords: Blended polymer; Spin-coating method; Ceramic/polymer nanocomposites; Dielectric properties; Charge/discharge efficiency

Jeenendra Kumar Shiv, Kaushik Kumar, Sudeepan Jayapalan,
Recent advances in tribological properties of silicon based nanofillers incorporated polymer nanocomposites,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
Volume 92, Part 2,
2023,
Pages 1231-1239,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2023.05.328.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214785323028109)
Abstract: Over the last few decades, the demand for the development of polymer nanocomposites is increasing due to their excellent properties of mechanical, thermal, electrical, tribological properties and so on. The diversity of polymer nanocomposites with enhanced performances makes them suitable for a wide variety of applications such as automobile, aerospace, electrical, electronics, construction etc. The effect of various types of nanofillers such as metal-based nanofiller, carbon-based nanofiller, and silicon-based nanofiller incorporated into polymers are widely investigated by various researchers. Silicon-based nanofiller-reinforced polymer nanocomposites are prospective in recent years on tribological applications such as plastic gears, bushes, bearings, etc. A large number of different studies have demonstrated the various excellent properties of silicon-based nanofillers and hybrid nanofillers into polymer nanocomposites, however, limited reviews are being published on the effect of silicon-based nanofillers and hybrid nanofillers reinforced polymer nanocomposites. Therefore, this manuscript aims to review the recent advances on the effect of silicon-based nanofillers and hybrid nanofillers incorporated polymer nanocomposites emphasizing mainly the tribological properties. This work presents the outline of the main outcome from various studies focusing mainly on the effect of silicon-based nanofiller on friction, wear resistance and wear mechanism-related tribological properties. This work also intended to review the effect of silicon-based hybrid nanofillers into polymer nanocomposites on tribological properties. Finally, the challenges and future perspectives of silicon-based nanofillers reinforced polymer nanocomposites on the tribological properties are also discussed.
Keywords: Friction; Wear rate; Silicon; Nanofillers; Polymer nanocomposites

D.S. Aditya, K.N. Mahadevaprasad, S.K. Nataraj,
Polymer-Clay Nanocomposites for Dyes Abatement,
Reference Module in Materials Science and Materials Engineering,
Elsevier,
2024,
,
ISBN 9780128035818,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-323-95486-0.00015-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780323954860000156)
Abstract: Since dyes are hazardous enough to cause numerous health effects, the proper abatement procedures need to be established and currently focused researches should be discussed. This chapter gives attention to the polymer-clay nanocomposites used as active material in different polymer systems for the sequestration of dyes from wastewaters generated from various sources. The structural characteristics of the clay materials are well discussed for the understanding of their mechanism in the removal of dye molecules from water. The high surface area with enormous active functional groups of the clays induces the effective removal of dyes when composed with selective polymers. The different interactive mechanisms employed between the polymer-clay composite and the dye molecules are discussed and compared with pristine forms to investigate the effectiveness of the particles. Moreover, the regenerability, as an important parameter for any material to establish its long-term stability, is summarized for various polymer-clay nanocomposites and compared. Finally, challenges in fabrication of clay-based nanocomposites and their applicability in dyes removal studies has been overviewed. Hence, the current chapter gives the insightful scientific information right from the synthesis to the applicability of the polymer-clay nanocomposite in dyes removal.
Keywords: Clay; Nanocomposites; Adsorption; Dye removal; Nanoparticles; Wastewater treatment

V. Siva, A. Murugan, A. Shameem, S. Thangarasu, S. Kannan, A. Raja,
Gel combustion synthesized NiMoO4 anchored polymer nanocomposites as a flexible electrode material for solid state asymmetric supercapacitors,
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy,
Volume 48, Issue 49,
2023,
Pages 18856-18870,
ISSN 0360-3199,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.01.295.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360319923005359)
Abstract: Recent research has focused on the search for new electrode materials to improve the specific capacitance of supercapacitors. Conductive polymers and metal oxides have been extensively tested as electrode materials for supercapacitors. Incorporating both conductive polymers and metal oxides into a composite provides excellent results for the electrochemical performance of supercapacitors. In this present work, we have fabricated the nanoscale α-NiMoO4 particles that enwrapped on electronically conducting polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) based on Polyvinyl alcohol (PVA)/Poly(vinyl) pyrrolidone (PVP) for supercapacitor applications. The different concentrations of PVA/PVP with α-NiMoO4 loaded polymer nanocomposites were developed by using a solution casting method. All the polymer nanocomposites have been subjected to Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Fourier Transforms Infrared (FTIR), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and electrochemical studies. The prepared PNCs surface morphology has been acquired as a non-uniform rod-like structure. The electrochemical performances of the prepared PNCs have been investigated and the resultant value of the maximum specific capacitance is 15.56 F g−1 for 1 wt % of α-NiMoO4 nanoparticles(NPs) loaded polymer blended electrode at a scan rate of 5 mVs−1. The prepared PNCs exhibit 97.12% of columbic efficiency studied by using two electrode systems at room temperature in an aqueous electrolyte solution of 3 M KOH. From these investigation, it has been revealed that the PVA/PVP/α-NiMoO4 composites could be portable and flexible electrodes for energy storage applications.
Keywords: α- NiMoO4; Polymer nanocomposites; Surface morphology; Electrode; Cyclic voltammetry; Supercapacitor

A.M. El-naggar, Zein K. Heiba, A.M. Kamal, Mohamed Bakr Mohamed,
Influence of NiCo2O4/PbS nanocomposite on the structural, optical and electrical properties of Polymethyl Methacrylate polymer,
Optical Materials,
Volume 154,
2024,
115755,
ISSN 0925-3467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optmat.2024.115755.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925346724009388)
Abstract: Poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA)/(1-x)NiCo2O4/xPbS polymers were prepared using the casting hydrothermal and solid state reaction methods. The different phases formed in (1-x)NiCo2O4/xPbS nanocomposites were determined using the X-ray diffraction (XRD) technique. XRD and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) techniques were used to explore the structure and morphology of the formed polymers. The influence of (1-x)NiCo2O4/xPbS nanocomposite doping on the absorption, transmission, extinction coefficient, absorption coefficient, refractive index, nonlinear optical parameters and fluorescence spectra of PMMA polymer was explored using diffused reflectance and fluorescence spectrophotometer techniques. The direct and indirect optical band gap (Eg) values decreased from (5.31 and 5.06) eV (for undoped PMMA) to (4.66 and 4.17) eV (for doped PMMA with x = 0.1 filler), respectively. Several models based on the Eg value were used to find out the value of the refractive index of different polymers. The impact of doping on the dielectric constant, relaxation time, energy density, electrical conductivity and electric modulus of the PMMA polymer was also studied using an LCR meter.
Keywords: PMMA; NiCo2O4/PbS nanocomposite; Structure; Optical; Electrical

Elizabeth Champa-Bujaico, Ana M. Díez-Pascual, Alba Lomas Redondo, Pilar Garcia-Diaz,
Optimization of mechanical properties of multiscale hybrid polymer nanocomposites: A combination of experimental and machine learning techniques,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 269,
2024,
111099,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2023.111099.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836823006029)
Abstract: Machine learning (ML) models provide fast and accurate predictions of material properties at a low computational cost. Herein, the mechanical properties of multiscale poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (P3HB)-based nanocomposites reinforced with different concentrations of multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs), WS2 nanosheets and sepiolite (SEP) nanoclay have been predicted. The nanocomposites were prepared via solution casting. SEM images revealed that the three nanofillers were homogenously and randomly dispersed into the matrix. A synergistic reinforcement effect was attained, resulting in an unprecedented stiffness improvement of 132% upon addition of 1:2:2 wt% SEP:MWCNTs:WS2. Conversely, the increments in strength were only moderates (up to 13.4%). A beneficial effect in the matrix ductility was also found due to the presence of both nanofillers. Four ML approaches, Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), RNN with Levenberg's algorithm (RNN-LV), decision tree (DT) and Random Forest (RF), were applied. The correlation coefficient (R2), mean absolute error (MAE) and mean square error (MSE) were used as statistical indicators to compare their performance. The best-performing model for the Young's modulus was RNN-LV with 3 hidden layers and 50 neurons in each layer, while for the tensile strength was the RF model using a combination of 100 estimators and a maximum depth of 100. An RNN model with 3 hidden layers was the most suitable to predict the elongation at break and impact strength, with 90 and 50 neurons in each layer, respectively. The highest correlation (R2 of 1 and 0.9203 for the training and test set, respectively) and the smallest errors (MSE of 0.13 and MAE of 0.31) were obtained for the prediction of the elongation at break. The developed models represent a powerful tool for the optimization of the mechanical properties in multiscale hybrid polymer nanocomposites, saving time and resources in the experimental characterization process.
Keywords: Machine learning; Multiscale polymer nanocomposites; Mechanical properties; Poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (P3HB); Optimization; Predictive algorithms

Jinxia Cai, Bing Xie, Yunliang Jiang, Jinshan Lu, Zeyu Li, Pu Mao, Mohsin Ali Marwat, Haibo Zhang,
Design and preparation of ternary polymer nanocomposites for high energy density film capacitors,
Composites Science and Technology,
Volume 245,
2024,
110361,
ISSN 0266-3538,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compscitech.2023.110361.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0266353823004554)
Abstract: High discharge energy density (Ue) film capacitors are important for miniaturization and integration in power electronic applications. The Ue of a polymer film is mainly dependent on Weibull's breakdown strength (Eb) and dielectric constant (εr). This work aims to develop ternary nanocomposites composed of polycarbonate (PC), Al2O3 nanoparticles (Al2O3 NPs) and BaTiO3 nanowires (BT NWs) for capacitive energy-storage. Al2O3 NPs have a wide bandgap and are expected to enhance Eb owing to their insulating nature, while BaTiO3 nanowires (BT NWs) are ferroelectric and are expected to provide a high εr. To overcome local electric-field distortion at the interface due to the mismatch in εr, core-shell structured BT@SiO2 NWs are prepared. The Eb of the composite containing 1.0 wt% Al2O3 NPs and 6.0 wt% BT@SiO2 NWs can reach 626 MV/m while that of the pure PC is 465 MV/m. As a result, its Ue reaches 12.12 J/cm3, which is improved by 211% that of the pure PC. Its discharge efficiency is 83.5%. A finite element analysis corroborates the superiority of the ternary polymer nanocomposites for dielectric energy-storage.
Keywords: Discharge energy density; Breakdown strength; Ternary polymer nanocomposite; Nano alumina; Barium titanate nanowires

Muhammad Zafar, Syed Muhammad Imran, Ihsan Iqbal, Minahil Azeem, Saad Chaudhary, Sohaib Ahmad, Woo Young Kim,
Graphene-based polymer nanocomposites for energy applications: Recent advancements and future prospects,
Results in Physics,
Volume 60,
2024,
107655,
ISSN 2211-3797,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rinp.2024.107655.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211379724003383)
Abstract: Recently graphene, a two-dimensional, layered carbon nanomaterial, has gained attention of the researchers working on nanomaterials due to its outstanding mechanical, thermal, and electrical properties. When incorporated into polymer matrices, graphene serves as a versatile filler, resulting in the development of high-performance nanocomposites with variety of applications. This review article delves into the latest advancements in graphene-based polymer composites, primarily focusing on their role in energy-related applications. The article explores the extensive potential of graphene-based polymer nanocomposites and covers their fabrication using diverse techniques. These techniques include solution mixing, in-situ polymerization, electrospinning, and layer-by-layer assembly, each tailored to meet specific composite requirements. These versatile methods enable researchers to design and engineer graphene-polymer composites with tailored properties. The practical applications of these composites span various fields, with a significant emphasis on energy-related applications. They find utility in energy storage and conversion. This includes the enhancement of supercapacitors, lithium-ion batteries, fuel cells, and electrolyte membranes, all of which benefit from the improved performance and stability imparted by graphene. The article meticulously reviews the latest breakthroughs and innovations in these areas, underscoring the substantial progress achieved by researchers in enhancing the efficiency of graphene-based polymer nanocomposites for energy applications which includes conversion and storage. This review article provides a comprehensive and insightful examination of graphene-based polymer nanocomposites. It covers their fabrication techniques, outlines their applications in energy storage and conversion, and showcases both recent advancements and historical developments. By acknowledging the achievements and considering potential future directions, the article offers a well-rounded perspective on the evolving landscape of energy-related materials science.
Keywords: Graphene; Polymer nanocomposites; Energy applications; Energy storage; Energy conversion; Future prospects

Lu Liu, Xiaoli Jia, Qingyu Yang, Shutong Huang, Liaoliang Ke, Jie Yang, Sritawat Kitipornchai,
Optimisation of properties of multidimensional hybrid polymer nanocomposites for flexible pressure sensors,
Chemical Engineering Journal,
Volume 493,
2024,
152705,
ISSN 1385-8947,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.152705.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1385894724041925)
Abstract: Flexible, wearable pressure sensors provide a convenient, timely, and portable solution for human motion detection. However, there is still a lack of reports on the synergistic effect of multidimensional hybrid polymer nanocomposites for modulating the sensor’s key performance indexes. Herein, we present a cost-effective and scalable approach to preparing multidimensional hybrid polymer composites for piezoresistive pressure sensors. Composite charge-transfer paths and contact types are presented for the first time and analyzed in relation to the sensor sensitivity and linearity. The sensor has good characteristics, such as 0 ∼ 70 kPa range, 369.39 kPa−1 sensitivity, a minimum resolving power of 18 Pa and 68 ms, and 76 ms response and recovery times, owing to the interconnecting porous structure of MS and the synergistic effect of the composites. The sensor exhibited a stable piezoresistive response and good reproducibility over 9000 + cycles. The sensor was then attached to different parts of the human body and evaluated for its ability to detect various human movements, including speech and elbow flexion. Finally, a prototype haptic sensing array and a prototype force measurement platform based on these pressure sensors were demonstrated.
Keywords: Piezoresistive pressure sensor; Melamine sponge; Multidimensional hybrid polymers; Human motion detection; Force measuring platform

Tianyu Guan, Akshaya Jagannath, Yohann Delaunay, Pieter Daniel Haasbroek, Quanliang Su, Per Magnus Kristiansen, Nan Zhang,
Surface wettability and tribological performance of Ni-based nanocomposite moulds against polymer materials,
Journal of Materials Research and Technology,
Volume 30,
2024,
Pages 8506-8518,
ISSN 2238-7854,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmrt.2024.05.236.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2238785424012766)
Abstract: In the mass-production of microfluidic devices through micro hot embossing/injection moulding, the longevity of mould inserts is influenced by elevated adhesion and friction between the polymer and the mould. Thus, accurate prediction of mould lifespan requires a comprehensive understanding of surface wettability and tribological performance during polymer contact. The current study addresses this gap by characterizing fabricated micro-structured Ni, Ni-WS2, and Ni-PTFE nanocomposite moulds (surface morphologies, crystal structures and microhardness) to investigate inherent lubrication mechanisms. Surface wettability of mould material was systematically studied by measuring the contact angles with eight different polymer melts. Pin-on-disk tests with polymer pins made of cyclic olefin copolymer (COC 8007), polypropylene (PP), and poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) (PHBV) were conducted to elucidate the wear resistance of the nanocomposite moulds. Pressure-dependent friction coefficient and wear resistance were further explored under increasing external loads, simulating the actual moulding processes where contact pressure may vary considerably depending on the part shape. Results indicate that Ni-WS2 exhibits the highest microhardness (532 Hv), followed by Ni-PTFE (465 Hv) and Ni (198 Hv). Notably, Ni-PTFE demonstrates exceptional hydrophobicity against all polymer melts, signifying low surface energy during polymer contact. Moreover, both nanocomposite moulds exhibit reduced friction coefficients and enhanced wear resistance across various polymers. Counterintuitively, despite its lower hardness, the Ni-PTFE mould displays superior wear resistance against the COC pin under higher loads, while the Ni-WS2 mould experiences severe adhesive wear, as observed from wear morphology and profile analysis. This finding establishes the Ni-PTFE as a promising alternative as a mould insert material for precision manufacturing.
Keywords: Mould; WS2 nanosheets; PTFE nanoparticle; Electroforming; Friction and wear

Lesly Dasilva Wandji Djouonkep, Binqiang Xie, Huaizhi Tao, Jindong Chen, Lvyan Zhuo, Naomie Beolle Songwe Selabi, Alain Pierre Tchameni, Lin Zhao,
Thermo-thickening/amphoteric polymer nanocomposite incorporating vinyl-functionalized nano-silica as a viscosifier for high-salt and ultra-high temperature water-based drilling fluids,
Journal of Molecular Liquids,
Volume 404,
2024,
124866,
ISSN 0167-7322,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molliq.2024.124866.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016773222400922X)
Abstract: In the relentless extraction of oil and gas from deeper reservoirs, the harsh geological conditions pose significant rheological challenges for conventional polymer viscosifiers. Hence, the spotlight has turned to the unique potential of thermo-thickening polymers to enhance drilling fluid performance. In this study, a novel polymer nanocomposite (VMS-ATA) was designed to associate thermo-thickening responses, amphoteric characteristics, and vinyl-functionalized nano-silica (VMS) as nanofillers for the formation of a thermally stable polymer nanocomposite-bentonite hybrid system. VMS-ATA was prepared via in-situ polymerization under optimal synthetic conditions, and the unique chemical structure was analyzed using various techniques such as Fourier transform spectroscopy, proton nuclear magnetic resonance, elemental analysis, thermogravimetric analysis, X-ray spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and scanning electron microscopy. The study systematically investigated the enhancement of in-situ covalent bonding characteristics of VMS on the thermo-thickening behavior of VMS-ATA, while comparing it with amine-nano-silica (AMS) incorporated in a polymer composite (AMS-CGBA). TGA analysis revealed that VMS-ATA exhibits excellent thermal stability compared to AMS-CGBA, attributed to the thermally stable VMS (370 °C) compared to AMS (355 °C). Interestingly, VMS-ATA displayed relatively stable and prolonged thermo-thickening responses (100–200 °C) owed to high thermal-induced activation responses above the lower critical solution temperature (LCST) in both salt-free and saturated salt contamination. The rheological results of VMS-ATA viscosity retention at 220 °C and 20 wt% NaCl, exceeded 60 %, which is twice that of AMS-CGBA-containing fluids. As demonstrated, VMS-ATA and AMS-CGBA exhibited similar macro-interactions with rigid imidazole and caprolactam rings, but significantly differed in their micro-interactions owed to in-situ covalent binding induced by VMS compared to hydrogen bonding in AMS. This breakthrough exhibited the potential of VMS nanofillers to effectively maintain thickening response by facilitating efficient heat distribution to minimize rapid viscosity decay and revolutionize the landscape of high-salt and high-temperature (HSHT) drilling applications.
Keywords: Thermo-thickening/amphoteric polymer; Vinyl-functionalized nano-silica; Ultra-high temperature; High salinity; Mechanism differentiation

Yashwanth Venkatraman Naik, MahadevappaYallappa Kariduraganavar, Hosapalya Thimmaiah Srinivasa, Palakshamurthy Bandrehalli Siddagangaiah, Ramachandra Naik,
Influence of TiO2 nanoparticles during in-situ polymerization of TiO2/PANI nanocomposites and its supercapacitor properties,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 97, Part B,
2024,
112874,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.112874.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24024605)
Abstract: The influence of TiO2 nanoparticles (NPs) during the in-situ polymerization of TiO2/PANI (TiP) nanocomposites and their supercapacitor properties were investigated. TiO2/PANI nanocomposites with varying amounts of TiO2 NPs (5, 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50 wt%) per mass of aniline hydrochloride were synthesized using the in-situ chemical oxidative polymerization method. The TiO2 NPs were prepared via the sol-gel method. The nanocomposites and pristine TiO2 NPs were characterized using various techniques including X-ray diffraction, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, UV–Vis absorption, field emission scanning electron microscopy, and energy dispersive spectroscopy. The impact of increasing TiO2 content on the thermal stability, I-V characteristics, lyophilicity (contact angle), and electrochemical performance of the supercapacitor was studied. Among the different TiO2/PANI nanocomposites, the TiP2 nanocomposite with 10 wt% TiO2 exhibited the highest conductivity, good lyophilicity (static contact angle), and highest specific capacitance, measured at 1.59 × 10−4 S cm−1, 25.6o, and 421.66 F/g (at 0.1 A g−1), respectively. The TiP2 nanocomposite also demonstrated excellent redox cycle stability (92 % retention after 200 cycles), galvanometric charge-discharge behavior, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and transmission electron microscopy analysis, supporting its potential as an efficient electrode material for supercapacitor devices.
Keywords: TiO2-NPs; PANI; wt%; TiP2; Sol-gel method; Lyophilicity

Jilan Long, Guangliang Zhou, Xiaomeng Yu, Jiayun Xu, Liqiu Hu, Andrey Pranovich, Qiwen Yong, Zhi-Hui Xie, Chunlin Xu,
Harnessing chemical functionality of xylan hemicellulose towards carbohydrate polymer-based pH/magnetic dual-responsive nanocomposite hydrogel for drug delivery,
Carbohydrate Polymers,
Volume 343,
2024,
122461,
ISSN 0144-8617,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbpol.2024.122461.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0144861724006878)
Abstract: This study reports a pH/magnetic dual-responsive hemicellulose-based nanocomposite hydrogel with nearly 100 % carbohydrate polymer-based and biodegradable polymer compositions for drug delivery. We synthesized pure Fe3O4 magnetic nanoparticles (Fe3O4 MNPs) using a co-precipitation method, then engineering xylan hemicellulose (XH), acrylic acid, poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate, and Fe3O4 to synthesize the pH/magnetic dual-responsive hydrogel (Fe3O4@XH-Gel), through graft polymerization on XH with in-situ doping Fe3O4 MNPs initiated by the ammonium persulfate/tetramethylethylenediamine redox system. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR), X-ray diffractometry (XRD), scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive spectrometer (SEM-EDS), high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET), swelling gravimetric analysis, vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM) were employed to analyze the hydrogel's chemical structures, morphologies, pH-responsive behaviors, and magnetic responsiveness characteristics, mechanical and rheological properties, as well as cytotoxicity and biodegradability. The results indicate that the Fe3O4@XH-Gel exhibited excellent dual responsiveness to pH and magnetism. Furthermore, an emphasis was placed on the in-depth analysis of the pH response mechanism. Finally, we utilized this cutting-edge hydrogel to investigate the controlled-release behavior of two model drugs, Acetylsalicylic acid and Theophylline. The hydrogel demonstrated exceptional controlled release attributes, positioning it as a potential carrier for targeted drug delivery, particularly to the gastrointestinal conditions.
Keywords: Hemicellulose; Fe3O4; Nanocomposite hydrogel; pH responsiveness; Magnetic responsiveness; Drug release control

Giti Pishehvarz, Jafar Azamat,
Simulation of adsorption behavior for various functionalized graphene nanosheets containing alkyl chain/polymer nanocomposites using ReaxFF,
Diamond and Related Materials,
Volume 143,
2024,
110921,
ISSN 0925-9635,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diamond.2024.110921.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925963524001341)
Abstract: The non-covalent interactions in polymer/functionalized graphene nanosheet (FGN) nanocomposites containing the alkyl chain were investigated in this study. For this purpose, the non-covalent interactions at the interfaces of the mentioned polymer nanocomposites were accurately assessed using reactive molecular dynamics (RMD) simulation. The considered structures included poly(3-(4-n-octyl)-phenylthiophene) (POPT) and poly(3-phenylhydrazone thiophene) (PPHT) with FGNs featuring primary amine (PA), secondary amine (SA), alkanolamine (AA), and diamine (D) functional groups in alkyl chain. The functional groups varied in alkyl chain lengths via n (n equal to carbon atoms). Results from RMD simulations highlighted that the minimum interaction energy occurred between polymers and G-SA 1 %. PPHT exhibited strong interactions with G-D-4 1 % and G-PA-16 1 %. Contrary to other FGN, especially G-PA 1 %, increasing alkyl chain length in G-SA 1 % negatively affected polymers/G-SA 1 % interaction energy. Moreover, Hydrogen bonding (H-bonding) was examined in all different nanocomposites of PPHT/FGN. Also, the effect of an increase in coverage percentage and temperature was evaluated. These findings offer valuable insights into interactions of polymer-FGN with different alkyl chain lengths, aiding in the design of tailored nanocomposites.
Keywords: Alkyl chain; Graphene; Hydrogen bonding; Polymer nanocomposites; Reactive molecular dynamics

Mirlene Pereira Vitorino, Karine Priscila Naidek, Rafaela Barboza Torres, Sedami Tozoun Romain Agassin, Alexandre Tadeu Paulino,
Core-Shell Polymeric Nanocomposite/Hydrogel for Water Pollution Remediation,
Reference Module in Materials Science and Materials Engineering,
Elsevier,
2024,
,
ISBN 9780128035818,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-323-95486-0.00018-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780323954860000181)
Abstract: Core-shell structures, as the name suggests, are formed by a core encapsulated in one or more layers. The core and shell can have diverse combinations of organic and inorganic materials, giving rise to completely inorganic or organic systems as well as mixed organic-inorganic systems. The properties of the core-shell structure can be the result of the combination of the individual properties of the materials of origin in a single material or unique to the core-shell system through synergism between the components. When one or more elements is on the nano scale, core-shell composites have the advantages of the nanometric world. In this chapter, the emphasis is on nanocomposites/polymeric core-shell hydrogels. As the properties of the core-shell system stem from its constituents, knowledge of the methods for obtaining core-shell nanocomposites/polymeric hydrogels is fundamental so that the desired systems can be produced for diverse applications. One of the applications in which nanocomposites/hydrogels based on core-shell system most stand out is the remediation of water pollution through the use of these materials in different treatment methods, such as filters, sorption, photocatalysis and membranes. Besides the broad gamut of applications, these materials can be used in the removal of different types of pollutants, such as potentially toxic metals, dyes, drugs, pesticides and biological contaminants, depending on the composition of the nanocomposite.
Keywords: Nanocomposite; Hydrogel; Core-shell; Water treatment; Environmental remediation

Maria Cantarella, Vanessa Spanò, Massimo Zimbone, Federico Giuffrida, Ernestino Lufrano, Vincenzina Strano, Giorgia Franzò, Gianfranco Sfuncia, Giuseppe Nicotra, Alessandra Alberti, Maria Antonietta Buccheri, Giancarlo Rappazzo, Elena Maria Scalisi, Roberta Pecoraro, Maria Violetta Brundo, Giuliana Impellizzeri,
ZnO–MoS2-PMMA polymeric nanocomposites: A harmless material for water treatment,
Materials Today Chemistry,
Volume 36,
2024,
101912,
ISSN 2468-5194,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtchem.2024.101912.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468519424000181)
Abstract: The realization of polymeric nanocomposites is a promising strategy for large-scale applications of photocatalytic nanomaterials, limiting their dispersion into the environment. In addition, in order to obtain very efficient materials, a valid solution can be the formation of heterojunctions that, reducing the electron-hole recombination phenomena, increases the performances of the photocatalysts. For this work, we have realized promising photocatalytic polymeric nanocomposites through the simple method of sonication and solution casting, using poly (methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) as supporting matrix, ZnO nanoparticles as photoactive material, and MoS2 nanoflakes as co-catalyst for the realization of the heterojunction. Materials with several quantities of MoS2 have been synthetized and characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), contact angle measurements, X-ray diffraction analysis (XRD), UV–Vis spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and photoluminescence (PL). The photocatalytic performances of the obtained materials were evaluated by the photodegradation under UV light irradiation of two different common pollutants: rhodamine B (RhB) and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). The mechanism of the involved photocatalytic process was studied by the investigation of the main oxidants responsible of the photodegradation, using hole or radical scavengers. The antibacterial properties were investigated using Escherichia coli as a model organism. The eventual toxic effects of the prepared materials were studied on Artemia salina.
Keywords: Hybrid materials; Nanomaterials; Co-catalysts; Water treatment; Photocatalysis

Jihun Lee, Haolin Wang, Jae Hun Kim, Hyunseong Shin,
Importance of cohesive failure mode in fracture toughness enhancement of polymer nanocomposites with covalent grafting: A multiscale study,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 279,
2024,
111462,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2024.111462.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836824002737)
Abstract: The covalent grafting between the nanoparticles and polymer matrix is considered a useful design factor to control the mechanical properties (e.g., fracture toughness). Meanwhile, in the theoretical viewpoint, the toughening mechanisms of the epoxy nanocomposites with covalent grafting are still unclear. In this study, a new multiscale fracture model is proposed to quantify the toughness enhancement of epoxy nanocomposites induced by the covalent grafting. Especially, it was concentrated on the investigation of the influences of the cohesive failure mode on the fracture toughness and revealed that the failure mode transition (from the adhesive failure mode to cohesive failure mode) near the nanoparticles with increasing grafting ratio is critical factor for the toughening mechanisms of the epoxy nanocomposites with covalent grafting. The theoretically derived multiscale model demonstrated that the cohesive failure mode significantly enhanced the fracture toughness of polymer nanocomposites by dissipating more energy compared to the adhesive failure mode. This study underscores the critical importance of rationally designing nanocomposites with an optimal grafting ratio that properly reflects the cohesive failure mode. It is anticipated that the multiscale analysis approach outlined in this study will provide valuable design guidelines and insights for polymer nanocomposites incorporating covalent grafting.
Keywords: Polymer-matrix composites (PMCs); Multiscale analysis; Cohesive failure mode; Interphase/interface; Fracture toughness

Jianpeng Zhang, Ziya Wang, Chao Shang, Zhengfang Qian, Zhangming Wu, Xinge Yu, Zhengchun Peng,
Piezoresistive relaxation and creep model of porous polymer nanocomposite supported by experimental data,
Sensors and Actuators A: Physical,
Volume 366,
2024,
115002,
ISSN 0924-4247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sna.2023.115002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924424723008518)
Abstract: Porous piezoresistive nanocomposites (PPNs), a blend of conductive nanomaterials and a porous polymer matrix, have garnered significant attention in the realm of flexible pressure sensors. The porous microstructure offers exceptional sensitivity and lightweight characteristics of these sensors, but it also introduces challenges such as relaxation and creep behaviors. Grounded in viscoelastic theory, this paper introduces a mathematical model that provides a quantitative analysis of the resistance-strain relationship of PPN-based piezoresistive sensors, considering both bulk resistance and contact resistance. To elucidate the relaxation and creep behaviors, the model incorporates the conformational change and the slip motion of the polymer macromolecules during the deformation. Utilizing the Adam optimization algorithm, the model can accurately depict the piezoresistive behavior of various PPNs (with different porosities and conductive nanomaterial contents) with a fitting accuracy exceeding 99%. Furthermore, we explored some atypical characteristics of the PPN-based sensor, such as the negative resistance-strain behavior and the overshooting of bulk resistance. This study sets a theoretical basis for the development of sensitive and stable PPN-based sensors.
Keywords: Porous polymer nanocomposites; Piezoresistive sensor; Multi-mechanism modelling; Compressive relaxation behavior; Resistance creep

Jia-Wun Li, Ho-Fu Chen, Yu-Zhe Liu, Jui-Hsin Wang, Ming-Chang Lu, Chih-Wei Chiu,
Photocurable 3D-printed AgNPs/Graphene/Polymer nanocomposites with high flexibility and stretchability for ECG and EMG smart clothing,
Chemical Engineering Journal,
Volume 484,
2024,
149452,
ISSN 1385-8947,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.149452.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1385894724009379)
Abstract: A flexible and stretchable photocurable resin was prepared by varying the oligomer/acrylate monomer ratio. The electrical conductivity of the resin was enhanced by adding graphene and silver nanoparticles (AgNPs). Different electrode surface structures and line structures were customized using photocurable 3D printers to detect physiological signals such as electrocardiograms (ECG) and electromyograms (EMG). An amphiphile dispersant, PIB-POE-PIB, was utilized to reduce graphene aggregation. Non-covalent bonding between graphene and the lipophilic chain of PIB, as well as the hydrophilic chain of POE, increased the stability of graphene in aqueous solutions. By combining the reduced AgNPs with the elastic photocurable resin via photopolymerization under UV exposure, AgNPs/graphene/polymer nanocomposite sensing electrodes with high flexibility were prepared. The cured resin had a low surface resistivity (approximately 1 × 102 Ω/sq), with a strain of up to 300 % at fracture. After washing and perspiration tests, the resistivity was maintained at 6 × 102 Ω/sq. Finally, electrodes with different surface structures and line structures were printed using photocurable 3D printers to measure the ECG and EMG of the human body during various exercises, demonstrating that the advantages of photocurable 3D printing can be successfully integrated with wearable electronic devices to produce smart textiles for bioelectric signal detection.
Keywords: 3D printing; Photocuring; Graphene; Silver nanoparticles; Electrocardiography; Electromyography

Xiaoting Yuan, Zifeng Mai, Huan Li, Xiangyu Gao, Ao Yan, Dongjie Jiang, Xunjie Wei, Hongqi Jiang, Shuxiang Dong,
Enhanced energy density in piezoelectric PVDF-polymer nanocomposite via multiple mechanism synergetic action,
Nano Energy,
Volume 127,
2024,
109734,
ISSN 2211-2855,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2024.109734.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211285524004828)
Abstract: Piezoelectric poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) polymer exhibits the flexible characteristic, however, a piezo-generator based on the PVDF polymer normally shows low power density because of its low piezoelectric coefficient. Here, we report a fundamental synergistic strategy to prepare PVDF polymer nanocomposite for enhancing electromechanical coupling performance and improving its energy density, including (i) the mechanically directional stress field (MDSF) fabrication of PVDF nanocomposite doped with polar Pb(Zr,Ti)O3 (PZT) ceramic nanoparticles via high-energy ball milling, (ii) introduction of micro-cavities holding polar nanoparticles, and (iii) floating electrode (Ag) films spaced uniformly inside the polymer nanocomposite. The investigations reveal that the MDSF fabrication can induce ordered, chain-shape nanocrystalline fibers with a high β-crystal phase, which makes 42% contribution to the piezoelectricity; while the micro-cavities and floating electrode films after poling exhibit a strong electret effect, which further make 18% and 27% contributions, respectively, to the piezoelectricity. This multiple-mechanism synergistic effect results in a much higher piezoelectric coefficient d33 increased from 4 pC N−1 for a pure PVDF (without bearing a uniaxial stretching) to 33 pC N−1 for the nanocomposite. It further dramatically increases to 228 pC N−1, a giant apparent piezoelectric charge coefficient d33*, for a 3D-printed 7-layer nanocomposite with 360 μm in thickness. An energy harvester (EH) based on the PVDF nanocomposite generates a record high peak power density of 13.2 mW cm−2 and the load power density of 5.46 mW cm−2 under a dynamic pressure of 255 kPa at the frequency of 5 Hz, which is near two orders of magnitude higher than that of a conventional PVDF polymer EHs. The fabricated flexible EH can even directly light up 46 LEDs in real-time or power a blind-man reading system when touching it. This work is of great significance in enlightening future flexible piezoelectronic designs.
Keywords: PVDF nanocomposite; Synergistic strategy; Piezoelectric coefficient; Energy harvester

Sami S. Alharthi, M.G. Althobaiti, Talal Aljohani, Merfat Algethami, Ali Badawi,
Correlation between the optical parameters of CuO polymeric nanocomposite and gamma dose for applications in irradiation issues,
Optical Materials,
Volume 150,
2024,
115164,
ISSN 0925-3467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optmat.2024.115164.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925346724003471)
Abstract: This work aims to correlate between the optical parameters of CuO nanoparticles incorporated in graphene/polyvinyl alcohol (Gr/PVA) polymeric nanocomposites (PNCs) and gamma irradiation dose. CuO PNCs were prepared by solution casting technique and γ-irradiated with different doses (0–250 kGy). The structural, morphological and optical properties of the non-irradiated and γ-irradiated PNCs were characterized using x-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and UV–visible techniques. XRD measurements reveal that the crystallinity of the irradiated PNCs decreases upon increasing the γ-irradiations dose. SEM investigations show that the irradiated films’ surface becomes rougher with a lot of humps. FT-IR analysis reveals clear variations in the bonds of the PNCs due to the irradiation. The optical analysis exposes that the transmittance of the irradiated PNCs decreases as the irradiation dose is increased. The optical bandgap decreases from 5.09 eV to 4.57 eV upon the increase in the γ-dose form 0–250 kGy. The refractive index of the non-irradiated and irradiated films are correlated with γ-irradiations dose using seven models. Moreover, the nonlinear optical parameters are also studied. The enclosed findings in this work endorse that CuO PNCs could be effectively used in dosimetry and shielding applications.
Keywords: Polymeric nanocomposites; Optical; Structural; Refractive index; Gamma irradiation; Dosimetry

Qurat Ul Ain, M.F. Wani, Rakesh Sehgal, Manjesh K. Singh,
Role of Al2O3 reinforcements in polymer-based nanocomposites for enhanced nanomechanical properties: Time-dependent modeling of creep and stress relaxation,
Ceramics International,
2024,
,
ISSN 0272-8842,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2024.06.201.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0272884224026142)
Abstract: Alumina (Al2O3) based nanocomposites mark a paradigm shift in materials science, offering unprecedented opportunities for multifunctional applications. This study meticulously examines the mechanical properties of polymer nanocomposites (PNCs), with a specific focus on the impact of varying sizes and concentrations of Al2O3 nanoparticles. By investigating these parameters, the research enables the tailoring of mechanical properties to meet specific requirements. The study reveals remarkable enhancements in the reduced modulus (Er), reaching up to 350%, 175%, and 100% under load and displacement control modes for 25 nm, 80 nm, and 200 nm average particle sizes, respectively. Beyond mechanical strength, the research delves into the nanocomposites resistance to long-term deformation (creep) and their ability to maintain consistent performance under load (stress relaxation). Additionally, the tribological performance lays the groundwork for the development of high-performance materials. The insights gained from this study represent more than an incremental improvement; they signify a transformative leap forward in addressing the multifaceted challenges of advanced material technology, with the potential to revolutionize various industries.
Keywords: Al2O3 reinforcement; Polymer based nanocomposites; Nanomechanical performance; Time-dependent modeling; Friction analysis

Mojtaba Haghgoo, Reza Ansari, Mohammad Kazem Hassanzadeh-Aghdam, Jamaloddin Jamali,
Electric field influence on the non-zero temperature resistance of carbon nanotube polymer nanocomposites with subbands effect,
Sensors and Actuators A: Physical,
Volume 373,
2024,
115462,
ISSN 0924-4247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sna.2024.115462.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924424724004564)
Abstract: The effective electrical resistivity of carbon nanotubes (CNT)-based polymer nanocomposites is studied using an analytical model based on the percolation theory. The CNTs are considered as rod-like conductors that are aligned or randomly dispersed in the polymer to transport electrons by tunneling. When assessing non-zero temperature electrical resistivity, the tunneling effect considers the thermally energized electron transmission that occurs between each coupled pair of CNTs by the electrical transport model. The modeling technique consists of three steps: identifying the percolating network from the primary formation of CNTs, initial prediction of resistivity by equivalent resistor network, computation of the displacements of CNTs for the resistance change. Taking into consideration the behavior of tunneling in the percolation transition zone, a good agreement is obtained between the model results and experimental data. The verified code is used to investigate the sensitivity for different orientation states, aspect ratios and mode numbers. The results reveal lower sensitivity for higher mode numbers as collateral with the influence of increasing randomness.
Keywords: Mode number; Thermal energy; Electric field; Non-zero temperature; Percolation

Jie Zhang, Tianyang Cui, Zhaoxin Li, Ruixia Gao, Xuemeng Tian, Chaochao Dong, Junling Wang, Wei Cai, Yuan Hu,
A simple surface engineering to develop the potential of carbon nitride nanosheets in high-performance polymer nanocomposites conducted by first-principles calculations,
Materials Today Communications,
Volume 36,
2023,
106713,
ISSN 2352-4928,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtcomm.2023.106713.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352492823014046)
Abstract: The incompatible interface between carbon nitride (CN) nanosheets and polymer resin is a huge challenge to develop high-performance polymer/CN nanocomposites. Recently, the complicated surface functionalization methods reported severely hinder the commercial production and practical application of polymer/CN nanocomposites. Herein, conducted by the first-principles calculations, a simple surface engineering is put forward to change the surface characteristic of CN nanosheets by rapidly introducing oxygen atoms with a chemical oxidation method. Presented by the first-principles calculations, it is found that the introduction of oxygen atoms can enhance the adsorption energy between oxygen-doping carbon nitride nanosheets (OCN) and waterborne polyurethane (WPU) resin. As a result, a stronger interfacial interaction and better dispersion state are presented in WPU/OCN nanocomposites, thus laying the foundation for the properties enhancement. Further, effective suppression effects for thermal pyrolysis and fire hazards of WPU resin are demonstrated by OCN nanosheets. As presented by cone calorimeter results, the peak values of heat release rate and total heat release in WPU/OCN-2 are decreased to 806 kW/m2 and 43.3 MJ/m2, significantly less than those of pure WPU (1028 kW/m2 and 55.9 MJ/m2). Meanwhile, more char residue, lower signal intensity of pyrolysis gas, and a prolonged time for signal peak also confirm that the addition of 2.0 wt% OCN nanosheets can hinder the thermal degradation behavior of WPU resin. In addition, the introduction of oxygen atoms promotes the formation of hydrogen bond interactions between OCN nanosheets and WPU matrix, thus enhancing interfacial compatibility and overcoming the re-stack problem. As a result, break strength and elongation at break of WPU/OCN-2 are up to 621% and 24.4 MPa, respectively. The combination of first-principles calculations and surface engineering opens a new approach for designing and developing high-performance polymer nanocomposites.
Keywords: Carbon Nitride; Polymer Nanocomposites; Fire Hazards; Thermal Degradation; Mechanical Properties

Saeideh Hojatzadeh, Esmail Sharifzadeh, Farshad Rahimpour,
An EBM based multi-stage mechanical model to predict the time-dependent creep behavior of semi-crystalline polymer nanocomposites,
Mechanics of Materials,
Volume 184,
2023,
104737,
ISSN 0167-6636,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechmat.2023.104737.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167663623001837)
Abstract: In this study, a multi-stage model is proposed to predict the creep behavior of semi-crystalline polymer nanocomposites considering the impact of nanoparticle aggregation/agglomeration, polymer/particle interphase region and self/induced crystallization phenomenon. A specific equivalent box model (EBM) was designed, based on excluded volume concept, to evaluate the different roles of dispersed or aggregated/agglomerated nanoparticle domains in the system. The tensile modulus of these domains was defined using mechanical and cohesive energy-based parameters in the melt-mixing stage. In the next stage, the physical/mechanical characteristics of the polymer/particle interphase were indicated using an analytical model and mechanical properties of the system. Another EBM was developed using standard linear viscoelastic (SLV) model components to study the time-dependent creep behavior of the matrix and polymer/particle interphase region. The impact of polymer/particle compatibility on the creep behavior of the samples was also experimentally evaluated by applying different amounts of compatibilized and un-compatible silica nanoparticles to the high-density polyethylene (HDPE) matrix. Different experimental tests were used to provide the required data or verify the obtained theoretical results. Both model predictions and experimental results showed that increasing the nanoparticle content and polymer/particle compatibility increases the resistance of the semi-crystalline nanocomposite system against the time-dependent creep.
Keywords: Creep; Polymer nanocomposites; Polymer/particle interphase; Aggregation; Crystallinity

Antonella de las M. Biasi, Eduardo A. Takara, María L. Scala-Benuzzi, Agustina M. Valverde, Nidia N. Gómez, German A. Messina,
Modification of electrodes with polymer nanocomposites: Application to the simultaneous determination of Zn(II), Cd(II), and Cu(II) in water samples,
Analytica Chimica Acta,
Volume 1273,
2023,
341499,
ISSN 0003-2670,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aca.2023.341499.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0003267023007201)
Abstract: Currently, there is a need for fast and sensitive analytical methods for monitoring metals in water due to the progressive increase in the presence of metal ions in the environment. These metals reach the environment mainly from industrial activity and heavy metals are non-biodegradable. The present work evaluates different polymeric nanocomposites to carry out the simultaneous electrochemical determination of Cu, Cd, and Zn in water samples. Screen-printed carbon electrodes (SPCE) were modified with the nanocomposites, which were obtained by a mixture of graphene, graphite oxide, and polymers, such as polyethyleneimide, gelatin, and chitosan. These polymers have amino groups in their matrix, giving the nanocomposite the ability to retain divalent cations. However, the availability of these groups plays a fundamental role in the retention of these metals. The modified SPCEs were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and cyclic voltammetry. The electrode that presented the best performance was selected to determine the concentration of metal ions in water samples by square-wave anodic stripping voltammetry. The obtained detection limits were 0.23 μg L−1, 0.53 μg L−1, and 1.52 μg L−1 for Zn(II), Cd(II), and Cu(II), respectively, with a lineal range of 0.1–50 μg L−1. The obtained results made it possible to conclude that the method developed using the SPCE modified with the polymeric nanocomposite presented adequate LODs, reasonable sensitivity, selectivity, and reproducibility. Besides, this platform is an excellent tool for developing devices to simultaneously determine heavy metals in environmental samples.
Keywords: Nanocomposite polymer; Stripping voltammetry; Heavy metals detection

Hadi Mehdipour, Abbas Rohani Bastami, Mohammad Hossein Soorgee,
Comprehensive 3-D homogenization approach for predicting mechanical properties and creep behavior of polymer nanocomposites reinforced with graphene nanoplatelets,
Composite Structures,
Volume 330,
2024,
117823,
ISSN 0263-8223,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compstruct.2023.117823.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263822323011698)
Abstract: The aim of this study is to provide a comprehensive 3-D homogenization approach based on the high-fidelity generalized method of cells method to predict the mechanical properties and creep behavior of polymer nanocomposite reinforced with graphene nanoplatelets. Several fundamental experimental aspects including the volume fraction, size, and random orientation of graphene nanoplatelets, the interphase region, and the aggregation state of nanofillers of graphene are taken into account. The present study introduces two novel perspectives. At first, the aggregation of graphene nanoplatelets is formulated as dependent on volume fraction. Then the size of graphene is formulated as an important factor affecting the interphase region and the mechanical properties of polymer nanocomposite. Micromechanical tests conducted using the proposed method illustrate the good agreement with experimental data. The results of the parametric study on different experimental aspects revealed important findings. (i) For a specific value of graphene nanoplatelet volume fraction, the mechanical properties of polymer nanocomposite are at the best state. By increasing the graphene content beyond the specified graphene content value, the effective properties of graphene are decreased. (ii) The size of graphene nanoplatelets and the characteristics of the graphene/polymer interphase region have a direct effect on the properties of the nanocomposite.
Keywords: Graphene nanoplatelet; Interphase region; Aggregation state; GNP aspect ratio; Creep behavior; Polymer nanocomposites; HFGMC homogenization approach

Mengting He, Peng Luo, Yiyan Xie, Yiyu He, Xuan Wang, Liang Tan,
Electrochemical determination of vascular endothelial growth factor using functional metal-polymer nanocomposites,
Colloids and Surfaces A: Physicochemical and Engineering Aspects,
Volume 677, Part A,
2023,
132380,
ISSN 0927-7757,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfa.2023.132380.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0927775723014644)
Abstract: Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a homo-dimeric glycoprotein that plays a prominent part in the pathophysiology of angiogenesis and vasculargenesis, such as tumorigenesis, vascular permeability and metastasis. Quantification of VEGF in the body is significant for clinical diagnosis and treatment. An electrochemical sensor for the sensitive determination of VEGF was developed. Functional metal-polymer nanocomposites, gold nanoparticles@poly(o-phenylenediamine) (AuNPs@PoPD), and AuNPs@PoPD-labeled VEGF antibodies (Ab-AuNPs@PoPD) were synthesized. The glassy carbon electrode modified with graphene nanoribbons (GNRs), AuNPs and VEGF, GCE/GNRs-AuNPs/VEGF, was fabricated and it was employed to capture Ab-AuNPs@PoPD. Free VEGF proteins had an inhibitory action on the assembly of GCE/GNRs-AuNPs/VEGF/Ab-AuNPs@PoPD, leading to the decrease of the electrochemical probe, PoPD, on the modified electrode and the decline of current signal in the voltammetic measurement. Under the optimal experimental conditions, the peak current difference was proportional to the VEGF concentration in the range of 0.500–500 ng mL−1 and the limit of detection was 300 pg mL−1. The proposed sensor exhibited a good selectivity, reproducibility and stability. High-salt microenvironment induced the dysfunction of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Electrochemical measurements reveal that increasing NaCl concentration in the growth medium promoted the release of VEGF from dysfunctional HUVECs.
Keywords: Functional metal-polymer nanocomposites; VEGF; Competitive immunoreaction; Electrochemical determination

Shambhu Kumar, Akhilendra Singh, Mayank Tiwari, R.K. Patel,
Estimation of flexural modulus of layer graded polymer nanocomposite using finite element and micromechanics approach,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
2023,
,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2023.08.338.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214785323046175)
Abstract: The effective bending modulus of layer-graded polymer nanocomposites (LGPNCs) was investigated using finite element modeling (FEM). Five uniform layers of LGPNCs were prepared with varying weight fractions of alumina as the filler material and epoxy as the matrix, ranging from 0% to 1% along their thicknesses. MATLAB code was developed to create representative volume element (RVE) samples, and ANSYS APDL was used for the analysis. The study examined the effect of the shape, weight fraction, and orientation of the nanorod reinforcement on the effective flexural modulus of LGPNCs and polymer nanocomposites (PNCs). The study explored the influence of the interface between the matrix and the nanofillers on the effective modulus of LGPNCs. The simulations results revealed that cylindrical nanorod led to enhanced bending strength in LGPNCs, while such improvements were not observed with spherical nanofillers. The results were compared to the modified Mori-Tanaka (MT) method and showed a high degree of agreement.
Keywords: Layered Graded Polymer Nanocomposites (LGPNCs); Mori-Tanaka (MT) Method; RVE; Flexural modulus

Thaleia-Michaela Chatzaki, Sokratis Kogchylakis, Dimitris Vlassopoulos, Spiros H. Anastasiadis, Kiriaki Chrissopoulou,
Towards the understanding of the unusual rheological response of polymer nanocomposites,
European Polymer Journal,
Volume 210,
2024,
112903,
ISSN 0014-3057,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eurpolymj.2024.112903.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014305724001642)
Abstract: It is well known that the properties of polymers can be improved by the incorporation of nano-additives in the polymeric matrix, forming nanocomposite materials that often possess innovative physicochemical properties compared to the initial materials and / or the respective conventionally filled systems. In this work, we investigate the rheological response of different series of poly(ethylene oxide) / silica, PEO/SiO2, nanocomposites by shear rheology. More specifically, spherical SiO2 nanoparticles of two different radii are dispersed in PEOs of different molecular weights covering the regime from unentangled to highly-entangled systems. Nanocomposites over a wide range of compositions were developed in order to investigate both the effect of the size and concentration of the nanoparticles and the effect of the molecular weight of the polymer matrix, on the rheological properties of the nanocomposite materials. For all systems three different concentration regimes are observed with distinctly different rheological response; a ‘polymer-like’ regime, where the behavior resembles the one of the respective polymers, a ‘weak gel-like’ regime at higher nanoparticle content, where enhanced polymer / particle interactions modify the behavior, and a ‘strong gel-like’ one characterized by percolated networks of nanoparticles formed within the polymer matrices. The ‘polymer-like’ regime is especially interesting since a significant reduction of the melt viscosity is observed, which is attributed to a dilution of the entanglement network of the polymer chains due to the presence of the nanoparticles.

Jhon F. Gallego, Lady J. Giraldo, Henderson I. Quintero, Hugo A. García, Karol Zapata, Samira Heidari, Masoud Riazi, Camilo A. Franco, Farid B. Cortés,
Effect of Monovalent/Divalent Ions and SiO2-based Nanocomposite Dosage on Thermochemical Stability of HPAM Polymeric Solutions,
Petroleum,
2024,
,
ISSN 2405-6561,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.petlm.2024.07.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405656124000300)
Abstract: This study evaluated the effect of monovalent and divalent ions and the dosage of a SiO2-based nanocomposite on the thermochemical stability of HPAM polymeric solution. Chelating Amine–Functionalized NPs (AFNPs) were used to enhance the thermochemical stability of HPAM based on capturing monovalent/divalent ions after seven days at 70°C. Different polymer solutions prepared with calcium chloride dihydrate (CaCl2∙2H2O) at 2000 mg/L and sodium chloride (NaCl) at 10000 mg/L, and two different dosages of HPAM (1000 and 2000 mg/L) were assessed in the presence and absence of AFNPs at dosages of 200, 500 and 1000 mg/L. The nanocomposite was characterized by N2 adsorption, Fourier-transformed infrared spectrophotometry (FTIR), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), dynamic Light Scattering (DLS), and Zeta potential (ZP). Stability tests over time confirmed the positive effect of nanocomposite on increasing the thermochemical stability of polymer solutions. Results revealed that adding 0, 200, and 500 mg/L of nanocomposite to the polymeric solution at 1000 mg/L of HPAM, 10000 mg/L of NaCl, and 2000 mg/L of CaCl2∙2H2O led to the viscosity reductions of 73.5%, 18%, and less than 1% after 7 days (70°C), respectively. Nanocomposite at 200 mg/L reduces the polymer degradation in the presence of the two salts evaluated separately, i.e., 20% for 10000 mg/L of NaCl and 15% for 2000 mg/L of CaCl2∙2H2O. The adsorption tests on AFNPs and SiO2 NPs concluded that AFNPs had higher adsorption of cations in comparison to SiO2 NPs and that greater adsorption of cations is related to a reduction in polymer degradation.
Keywords: Amine; Chelation; Nanoparticles; Partially Hydrolyzed Polyacrylamide (HPAM); Polymer; Thermochemical Stability
