Yulun Zheng, Honggang Mei, Shakir Ullah, Muhammad Usman Saeed, Lei Li, Sixun Zheng,
Reprocessing and reconfigurable shape recovery of epoxy and Fe3O4 nanocomposites enabled by crosslinking with a polymeric hardener bearing disulfide bonds,
Reactive and Functional Polymers,
Volume 193,
2023,
105768,
ISSN 1381-5148,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.reactfunctpolym.2023.105768.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1381514823002717)
Abstract: In this contribution, we reported the preparation of the nanocomposites of epoxy with Fe3O4 with poly(α-lipoic acid) (PLA) as a polymeric crosslinker. It was found that the surface reaction between Fe3O4 nanoparticles and the macromolecular crosslinker significantly facilitated the fine dispersion of the inorganic nanoparticles. In the meantime, dynamic disulfide bonds were successfully introduced into the nanocomposites. Therefore, the nanocomposites displayed the excellent reprocessing (recycling) properties. In addition, the nanocomposites had the shape memory properties; the original shapes of the shape memory nanocomposites can be reprogrammed via the exchange of dynamic disulfide bonds. Owing to the incorporation of Fe3O4 nanoparticles, the nanocomposites possessed the excellent paramagnetic and photothermal properties. Furthermore, the photothermal properties can be utilized to trigger the shape recovery in a non-contact fashion.
Keywords: Epoxy; Fe3O4 nanoparticles; Nanocomposites; Shape memory properties; Reprocessing properties

Ding Ai, Chenglong Wu, Yuting Han, Yuan Chang, Zongliang Xie, Hao Yu, Yanhao Ma, Yonghong Cheng, Guanglei Wu,
Polymer nanocomposites with concurrently enhanced dielectric constant and breakdown strength at high temperature enabled by rationally designed core-shell structured nanofillers,
Journal of Materials Science & Technology,
Volume 210,
2025,
Pages 170-178,
ISSN 1005-0302,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmst.2024.05.046.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1005030224006303)
Abstract: Polymer dielectrics are required to maintain high energy density at elevated temperatures for advanced power and electronic systems. Herein, we report a novel solution-processed core-shell structured polyimide (PI) nanocomposite with moderate dielectric constant HfO2 core and wide-bandgap Al2O3 shell, effectively addressing the typical trade-off between dielectric constant and breakdown strength in dielectric nanocomposites predominant at elevated temperatures. The formation of improved dielectrically matching interfaces by the rationally designed dielectric constant gradient from core-shell-matrix remarkably mitigates the distortion of the electric field around the interfaces, resulting in a high breakdown strength. Wide band gap Al2O3 shell also introduces deeper traps to impede the conduction loss. The validity of Al2O3 shell has been proved via experiments and simulations. Accordingly, HfO2@Al2O3/PI nanocomposite exhibits an excellent charge-discharge efficiency of 91.7 % at 300 MV/m and a maximum discharged energy density of 2.94 J/cm3 at 150 °C, demonstrating its potential for high-temperature energy storage.
Keywords: Polymer dielectrics; High temperature; Energy storage; Core-shell structure

Zhangmeng Luo, Yue Pan, Meng Shen, Meilin Wan, Yongming Hu, Haitao Huang, Shenglin Jiang, Yunbin He, Qingfeng Zhang,
Modulating polarization and carrier migration characteristics via constructing sandwich-structured heterojunction interfaces for achieving excellent high-temperature energy storage properties in polymer nanocomposites,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 74, Part B,
2023,
109540,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2023.109540.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X23029389)
Abstract: Dielectric polymer nanocomposites are ideal choices for electrostatic energy storage due to their high power density and reliability, but they cannot operate efficiently at high temperature. To solve this issue, herein, we designed and developed sandwich-structured montmorillonite (MMT)/polyetherimide (PEI)-(Pb,La)(Zr,Sn,Ti)O3 (PLZST) antiferroelectrics (AFEs)@dopamine (DA)-MMT/PEI nanocomposites. On one hand, compared to current wide-band gap fillers, i.e., TiO2, Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, two-dimensional MMT nanosheets possess unique electrically insulating performances along the thickness direction, and thus can effectively stop charges injecting and migrating, causing low conduction loss, and large breakdown strength (Eb). On the other hand, PLZST AFEs with orthorhombic structure can exhibit high maximum electric displacement (Dmax) and small remnant electric displacement (Dr) at high temperature, which is beneficial for achieving large Dmax-Dr in the nanocomposites. In addition, large dielectric constant differences between MMT/PEI and PLZST@DA/PEI layers can inhibit electrical tree growth, resulting in further raised Eb. Finite element simulations on electrical tree evolving confirm experimental breakdown results. The sandwich-structured nanocomposite displays impressive high-temperature (150 °C) capacitive performances possessing meanwhile a high Eb of 5265.9 kV/cm, large discharged energy density (Ue) of 7.1 J/cm3, being about 6 times that of the commercial biaxially oriented polypropylene, and large charge-discharge efficiency (η) of 81.6 %, which exceeds obviously latest polymer and polymer composites in terms of overall energy storage performances. More encouragingly, it displays an ultrahigh power density of 15.63 MW/cm3 and ultrafast discharge rate of 19.2 ns at 150 °C, indicate its excellent application potential in high-temperature pulse power systems.
Keywords: PLZST antiferroelectrics; MMT nanosheets; Sandwich-structured nanocomposites; High temperature; Energy storage

Shuai Zhang, Shuo Zhang, Siyuan Luo, Rong Wang, Jingran Di, Ya Wang, Daocheng Wu,
Four-component of double-layer infinite coordination polymer nanocomposites for large tumor trimodal therapy via multi high-efficiency synergies,
Journal of Colloid and Interface Science,
Volume 666,
2024,
Pages 259-275,
ISSN 0021-9797,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2024.04.039.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021979724007513)
Abstract: Multimodal /components tumors synergistic therapy is a crucial approach for enhancing comprehensive efficacy. Our research has identified lots of high efficiency synergies among four suitable components, revealing combinations with remarkably low combination index (CI) values (10-3-10-8). These combinations hold promise for large tumor powerful electrothermal-thermodynamic-multi-chemo trimodal therapy. To implement this approach, we developed four-component of double-layer infinite coordination polymer (ICP) nanocomposites, in which hypoxia-activated AQ4N and thermodynamic agent AIPH coordinated with Cu(Ⅱ) to form initial layer of positively charged ICPs-l NPs, chemotherapeutic agents gossypol-hyaluronic acid (G-HA) and CA4 coordinated with Fe(Ⅲ) to form out layer of negatively charged ICPs-2 NPs, then double-layer infinite coordination polymer nanocomposites (ICPs-1@ICPs-2 CNPs) were fabricated by electrostatic adsorption using ICPs-l NPs and ICPs-2 NPs. Cell experiments have extensively optimized the coordination combinations of the four components and the composition of the two layers. A programmable three-stage therapeutic procedure, assisted by a micro-electrothermal needle (MEN), was developed. Under this procedure the resulting nanocomposites demonstrate the powerful trimodal comprehensive therapeutic outcomes for large tumors using lower components dosage, achieving a tumor inhibition rate nearly reaching 100 % and no recurrence for 60 days. This study offers remarkable potential for tumor multimodal /components synergistic therapy in future.
Keywords: Infinite coordination polymer; Nanocomposites; Therapeutic agent; Synergistic therapy; Large tumor; Micro-electrothermal needle

Mohammad Harun-Ur-Rashid, Abu Bin Imran, Md. Abu Bin Hasan Susan,
Magnetic Polymer Nanocomposites for Removal of Dyes and Metals From Wastewater,
Reference Module in Materials Science and Materials Engineering,
Elsevier,
2024,
,
ISBN 9780128035818,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-323-95486-0.00008-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780323954860000089)
Abstract: This study explores the potential of magnetic polymer nanocomposites (MPNCs) as an effective and sustainable solution for treatment of wastewater to remove heavy metals and dyes. The growing global water pollution and accompanying dangers to ecosystems and public health are taken into considerations to place proper emphasis on the urgent need for improved wastewater treatment. Limitations associated with traditional methods, such as high costs and low efficiency, are discussed elaborately. MPNCs are examined in terms of properties, techniques of synthesis, and applications. Factors affecting adsorption capacity and selectivity, like particle size, shape, and surface functionalization, are explained. Different methods for synthesis have been discussed with focus on their ability to modify characteristics of MPNCs for specific applications. The chapter delves into mechanisms by which MPNCs adsorb contaminants, such as electrostatic interactions, chelation, and ion exchange. The influence of experimental parameters on adsorption efficiency, including pH, temperature, and contact time, is discussed. Regeneration and reusability of MPNCs are significant advantages over conventional methods, reducing costs and waste generation. A critical evaluation of the current research state is provided, summarizing key findings, breakthroughs, and challenges associated with MPNCs for wastewater treatment. High adsorption capacities, fast kinetics, and selectivity of various MPNCs are highlighted, along with the ease of separation from treated water by using a magnet. Challenges and limitations, such as potential leaching of magnetic nanoparticles and the need for scale-up studies, are addressed. Finally, the chapter concludes by identifying future research directions and potential applications of MPNCs beyond wastewater treatment.
Keywords: Magnetic nanoparticles; Magnetic polymer nanocomposites; Wastewater treatment; Adsorption capacity; Biocompatible polymers

Nastaran Ghanbari, Hossein Ghafuri,
Design and preparation the novel polymeric layered double hydroxide nanocomposite (LDH/Polymer) as an efficient and recyclable adsorbent for the removal of methylene blue dye from water,
Environmental Technology & Innovation,
Volume 26,
2022,
102377,
ISSN 2352-1864,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eti.2022.102377.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352186422000566)
Abstract: In this work, a novel and efficient nanocomposite was prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) and a novel polymer, that applied as adsorbent for selective adsorption of methylene blue (MB) from water. The prepared adsorbent was characterized by FTIR, XRD, BET, TGA, EDX, and FESEM techniques. Also, the optimal conditions for adsorption of methylene blue (MB) from water by LDH/Polymer nanocomposite were determined. The LDH/polymer nanocomposite showed an excellent affinity for the removal of MB molecules from water. The adsorption capacity of MB was 574.52 mg/g at pH 11. Also, the maximum adsorption capacity for LDH/Polymer nanocomposite at 35 °C was 1428.57 mg/g and the negative values of ΔG indicate that the adsorption process is spontaneous. Subsequently, recycling studies showed that the LDH/Polymer nanocomposite as an MB adsorbent could be used for four periods without significant reduction in the adsorption capacity.
Keywords: Nanocomposite; Layered double hydroxide (LDH); Novel polymer; Selective adsorption; Methylene blue (MB)

Sanjeev Kumar, Ram Bilash Choudhary,
Ameliorated optical, luminescent and thermo-chemical features of polymer derived PPy-SnO2 nanocomposite as efficient emissive layer material (EML),
Spectrochimica Acta Part A: Molecular and Biomolecular Spectroscopy,
Volume 302,
2023,
123099,
ISSN 1386-1425,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.saa.2023.123099.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386142523007849)
Abstract: PPy-SnO2 (PS) nanocomposite was synthesized with varying doses of SnO2 through in-situ oxidative polymerization technique. Morphological study was performed through FESEM analysis. Particle size of the 15% PS nanocomposite was estimated in the 13–35 nm range by XRD analysis. Elemental presence and its deconvoluted states in the 15% PS nanocomposite were confirmed by XPS analysis. Optical band gap for optimized 15% PS was calculated ∼1.83 eV. PL intensity increases with increase in the concentration of SnO2. Its value was found highest for 15% PS laid in the light blue region (close to white light). CIE color coordinate study of the nanocomposites elucidated that optimized 15% PS could be used as efficient emissive layer material for WLED application. A comparative TGA study of the PPy and 15% PS illustrated that optimized 15% PS nanocomposite proved to have better thermal stability.
Keywords: Conductive polymer; Nanocomposites; Photoluminescence; Emissive layer

Yueqin Cheng, Changlei Xia, Hakim AL. Garalleh, Mazen Garaleh, Nguyen Thuy Lan Chi, Kathirvel Brindhadevi,
A review on optimistic development of polymeric nanocomposite membrane on environmental remediation,
Chemosphere,
Volume 315,
2023,
137706,
ISSN 0045-6535,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.137706.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045653522041996)
Abstract: Current health and environmental concerns about the abundance and drawbacks of municipal wastewater as well as industrial effluent have prompted the development of novel and innovative treatment processes. A global shortage of clean water poses significant challenges to the survival of all life forms. For the removal of both biodegradable and non-biodegradable harmful wastes/pollutants from water, sophisticated wastewater treatment technologies are required. Polymer membrane technology is critical to overcoming this major challenge. Polymer matrix-based nanocomposite membranes are among the most popular in polymer membrane technology in terms of convenience. These membranes and their major components are environmentally friendly, energy efficient, cost effective, operationally versatile, and feasible. This review provides an overview of the drawbacks as well as promising developments in polymer membrane and nanocomposite membranes for environmental remediation, with a focus on wastewater treatment. Additionally, the advantages of nanocomposite membranes such as stability, antimicrobial properties, and adsorption processes have been discussed. The goal of this review was to summarize the remediation of harmful pollutants from water and wastewater/effluent using polymer matrix-based nanocomposite membrane technology, and to highlight its shortcomings and future prospects.
Keywords: Environmental pollution; Waste water; Remediation; Polymer; Nanocomposite membrane

Jiufeng Dong, Renchao Hu, Yujuan Niu, Liang Sun, Liuting Li, Shuai Li, Desheng Pan, Xinwei Xu, Rui Gong, Jin Cheng, Zizhao Pan, Qing Wang, Hong Wang,
Enhancing high-temperature capacitor performance of polymer nanocomposites by adjusting the energy level structure in the micro-/meso-scopic interface region,
Nano Energy,
Volume 99,
2022,
107314,
ISSN 2211-2855,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2022.107314.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211285522003925)
Abstract: The interface plays a major role in the conduction and breakdown behaviors of dielectric materials. Enhancing interface compatibility and Schottky barrier to reduce conduction loss and enhance breakdown strength of nanocomposites has been widely studied. Nevertheless, there are few reports on the effect of the energy level structure in filler/polymer and electrode/dielectric interface region on the breakdown strength and high-temperature energy storage performances. Herein, the polyimide (PI) films sandwiched by Al2O3 layers and filled with SiO2 shell-coated high-K BaTiO3 nanofibers were prepared. Our results reveal that the wide bandgap oxide layer can regulate the energy level structure of the interface region, introduce deep traps in the nanocomposites and increase the Schottky barrier at the electrode/dielectric interface to impede charge injection and transport. Moreover, the nanocomposites combine the advantages of anisotropic dielectric properties from the Al2O3 layer, SiO2 shell, and BaTiO3 core, enhancing dielectric constants of the nanocomposites. The optimal nanocomposites show greatly enhanced discharge energy density and breakdown strength at 150 °C, which are 370% and 38% higher than those of PI, respectively. This work provides more insight into the mechanism of electrical conduction and breakdown in polymer nanocomposites and offers an effective strategy for developing polymer nanocomposites with superior capacitive performance at elevated temperatures.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Electrical energy storage; High-temperature; Interface; Traps

Ying Jiang, Yue Huang, Zhenhao Fan, Meng Shen, Haitao Huang, Yunbin He, Qingfeng Zhang,
Energy density and efficiency of scalable polymer nanocomposites utilizing core-shell PLZST@Al2O3 antiferroelectric fillers with dielectric gradient,
Chemical Engineering Journal,
Volume 446, Part 1,
2022,
136925,
ISSN 1385-8947,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.136925.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1385894722024196)
Abstract: Ferroelectric/polymer based dielectric nanocomposites deliver high power density, but low discharged energy density (Ue) and charge–discharge efficiency (η), which are resulted from high remnant electrical displacement (Dr) of ferroelectric fillers and large dielectric difference between ferroelectrics and polymers, constrain their use in integrated electronic equipments. Here, we provide an effective and low-cost strategy for developing high-energy–density and high-efficiency dielectric nanocomposites by incorporating core–shell structured PLZST@Al2O3 nanoparticles (NPs) as fillers into P(VDF-HFP) polymer matrix. The introduction of PLZST antiferroelectric (AFE) cores with large maximum electrical displacement (Dmax) and small Dr can substantially increase Dmax-Dr values and narrow D-E loops of dielectric nanocomposites. The addition of Al2O3 shells with wide band gap and dielectric constant near that of the P(VDF-HFP) matrix can prevent the charge injection from electrodes and cause the applied electric field evenly distribute, and thus inhibit the leakage current and increase the breakdown strength (Eb), which are confirmed by finite element simulations. Consequently, benefited from large Dmax-Dr of 7.93 µC/cm2 and Eb of 5281.68 kV/cm, PLZST@Al2O3/P(VDF-HFP) nanocomposites with 3 wt% filler contents exhibit simultaneously a large Ue of 17.95 J/cm3 and high η of 75%, which outperform those of all latest NPs/polymer nanocomposites in terms of overall capacitive performances and are even higher than those achieved in polymer nanocomposites loaded with nanowires or nanofibers fabricated by complicated methods. This study exhibits a promising way to promote the industrialized fabrication of dielectric capacitors through capitalizing on the synergy of the dielectric constant gradient, wide band gap and AFE characteristics of the fillers.
Keywords: Antiferroelectrics; Core-shell structure; Dielectric constant gradient; Polymer nanocomposites; Energy storage

Qing Ma, Bin Hao, Xiu Yue, Peng-Cheng Ma,
Matrix dominated positive/negative piezoresistance in conducting polymer nanocomposites reinforced by CNT foam,
Polymer,
Volume 257,
2022,
125288,
ISSN 0032-3861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2022.125288.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0032386122007753)
Abstract: Conducting polymer nanocomposites filled with carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have attracted great interest in developing flexible sensors. This paper reported the preparation of cotton-based CNT foam by using a chemical vapor deposition method. The prepared foam was incorporated into epoxy or polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) to fabricate corresponding nanocomposites. The results showed that CNT foam exhibited excellent adsorption performance for liquid polymer, thus eliminating the variations on the dispersion, concentration and formation of CNT networks in nanocomposites. CNT/Epoxy nanocomposites had a comparable electrical conductivity (1.2 S/m) with that of CNT foam (1.5 S/m), and a much higher value than that of CNT/PDMS counterpart (0.06 S/m). Interesting, CNT/Epoxy showed a negative piezoresistance, whereas the one with PDMS had a positive effect. It was found that the Poisson's ratio of the matrix and its wettability with nanofiller controlled the contact and tunneling resistance in the system, which in turn affecting piezoresistive behavior of bulky nanocomposites.
Keywords: Carbon nanotubes; Polymer nanocomposites; Piezoresistive effect; Tunnel resistance; Electrical property

Zein K. Heiba, A.M. El-naggar, A.M. Kamal, A.M. Aldhafiri, G. Lakshminarayana, Mohamed Bakr Mohamed,
Comparative analysis of the optical and electrical properties of PVA/PVP blended polymer with ZnCo2O4/CdS nanocomposites for optoelectronic and dielectric capacitor applications,
Optical Materials,
Volume 150,
2024,
115249,
ISSN 0925-3467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optmat.2024.115249.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925346724004324)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposite blends were produced using solution casting, hydrothermal and thermolysis techniques. The blends were composed of a polymer blend consisting of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) and polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) as the organic host matrix with (1−x)ZnCo2O4–xCdS as filler samples. The current study investigated the morphological, structural, optical, and dielectric features of PVP/PVP/(1-x)ZnCo2O4/xCdS blends. The crystallite size and the phases formed in the fillers were obtained using Rietveld method. The structure and morphology of blended samples were studied using X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscope techniques. The results of the optical properties imply that the linear and nonlinear optical parameters were affected by the amount of CdS in the (1-x)ZnCo2O4/xCdS filler samples. The direct allowed, indirect allowed, direct forbidden and indirect forbidden transitions values were reduced to 5.09, 4.55, 4.67 and 4.12 eV, respectively, as (1-x)ZnCo2O4/xCdS with x = 0.05 was incorporated into the PVA/PVP blend. The nature of electronic transitions in all blends were also studied. The fluorescence intensity, emitted colors and purity of the doped PVA/PVP blend are affected by the amount of CdS in the fillers and the excitation wavelength. The energy density of the host blend was improved as it loaded with fillers contained 5 and 10 % CdS in the frequency range beyond 1 kHz. The relaxation times of all doped blends were diminished except blend contained 25% CdS, the relaxation time rose slightly as compared with the relaxation time of undoped blend. The obtained properties indicates potential utility of the doped blends in photocatalytic, photonic, storage energy and optoelectronic applications.
Keywords: PVA/PVP; ZnCo2O4/CdS; Conductivity; Energy density; Linear/nonlinear optical parameters

M.P. Boranna, Neelamma B. Gummagol, Parutagouda Shankaragouda Patil, H.B. Ravikumar,
Effect of free volume on nonlinear optical characteristics of P(St-co-MMA)/CuO and PSAN/CuO polymer nanocomposites,
Materials Science and Engineering: B,
Volume 302,
2024,
117239,
ISSN 0921-5107,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mseb.2024.117239.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921510724000680)
Abstract: Microstructural dependance of nonlinear optical (NLO) properties of Poly (Styrene-co-Methylmethacrylate) (P(St-co-MMA)/Cupric Oxide (CuO) and Poly(styrene-co-Acrylonitrile) (PSAN)/CuO polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) has been explored. The positron lifetime parameter viz., free volume hole size (Vf) and NLO parameters viz., third-order nonlinear absorption coefficient (β) and nonlinear refractive index (n2)) are maximum at 0.4 wt% and 1.0 wt% of CuO nanoparticles loadings in P(St-co-MMA)/CuO and PSAN/CuO PNCs respectively. The crystallinity and optical energy band gap decreased in P(St-co-MMA)/CuO and PSAN/CuO PNCs at 0.4 wt% and 1.0 wt% of CuO nanoparticles loading respectively. The reduced optical energy band gap and the formation of bigger free volumes promote the dipole polarization and therefore the NLO properties of P(St-co-MMA)/CuO and PSAN/CuO PNCs.
Keywords: Positron lifetime; Free volume; Crystallinity; Optical energy band gap; Nonlinear absorption; Nonlinear refraction; Optical limiting

Binqiang Xie, Jindong Chen, Jun Chen, Chao Ma, Lin Zhao, Alain Pierre Tchameni,
Novel thermo-associating polymer/silica nanocomposite as a temperature-resistant rheology modifier for bentonite-free water-based drilling fluids,
Geoenergy Science and Engineering,
Volume 222,
2023,
211426,
ISSN 2949-8910,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoen.2023.211426.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S294989102300012X)
Abstract: Thermo-associating polymers have emerged as the promising agent to regulate the rheological properties of bentonite-free drilling ﬂuids (BFDF). However, the application of thermo-associating polymers in high temperature drilling was still limited due to its unsatisfactory thermal stability. In this study, the method of combine the advantages of thermo-associating polymers and nanoparticles into an organic/inorganic hybrid system has been used to further enhance the thermal stability of thermo-associating polymers. In detail, the novel thermo-associating polymer/silica nanocomposite (AMS-CGBA) was prepared by in situ polymerization under optimal synthesis conditions. Different techniques (FT-IR, 1H-NMR, Elemental analysis and TGA) were used to characterize the structure and the thermal stability of AMS-CGBA. Rheological performance of the AMS-CGBA in BFDF was comprehensively studied and compared with that of thermo-associating polymer (CGBA). The TGA results showed that AMS-CGBA had excellent thermal stability probably due to incorporation of amino-grafted nano-silica (AMS) into thermo-associating polymer. Results from rheological tests revealed that AMS-CGBA exhibited much better performance than CGBA in improving the thermal stability of BFDF under high temperature and high salt (HTHS). Especially at the concentration of 1.5 wt% AMS-CGBA, the AMS-CGBA based BFDF showed nearly 16 times higher values of rheological parameters (AV, PV and YP) than that of CGBA-containing fluid after aging at 200 °C. And the dynamic light scattering tests revealed that the stability temperature of AMS-CGBA molecular was higher than 160 °C, while that of the CGBA was lower than 150 °C. Moreover, the AMS-CGBA-containing fluids exhibited a weakened thermo-thickening viscosity over a wide temperature range (80–180 °C), which was favorable for the “flat” rheology characteristic of BFDF. And the thermo-associative mechanism of AMS-CGBA was investigated through differential scanning calorimetry experiments to analyze the rheological stability of AMS-CGBA-containing fluids at high temperatures. The nanocomposite with the characteristic of both thermosensitive polymers and nanoparticles showed potential application in rheological regulation of bentonite-free drilling fluids at high temperatures.
Keywords: Thermo-associating polymer nanocomposite; Rheology modifier; Thermal stability; Thermo-thickening; Rheological properties; Bentonite-free drilling fluids

Jiong Hui, Ling Liu, Yuxi Zhang, Bo Li, Xu Li, Liqun Zhang,
Structure and performance of silica/functionalized solution-polymerized styrene butadiene rubber/epoxidized butadiene rubber nanocomposites,
Polymer,
Volume 294,
2024,
126682,
ISSN 0032-3861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2024.126682.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003238612400017X)
Abstract: Functionalized solution-polymerized styrene butadiene rubber (FSSBR) is extensively used in “green tires” tread, so it is very important to improve the phase distribution of silica in FSSBR blends. In this work, the butadiene rubber (BR) is epoxidized (EBR) and blended with FSSBR. The effect of epoxidation degree on the structure and performance of the silica in combination with bis-(γ-triethoxysilylpropyl) disulfide (TESPD) filled FSSBR/EBR nanocomposites (S/FSSBR/EBR) is investigated. S/FSSBR/EBR3 nanocomposite with epoxidation degree of 3% achieves the best dispersion and phase distribution of silica by ring-opening reaction between epoxy group of EBR and silanol group of silica. Compared with silica in combination with TESPD filled FSSBR/BR nanocomposite (S/FSSBR/BR), S/FSSBR/EBR3 has better abrasion resistance, 13% improvement in wet-skid resistance and 15% reduction in rolling resistance, which provides an excellent solution for the preparation of high-performance “green tires".
Keywords: Functionalized solution-polymerized styrene butadiene rubber; Epoxidized butadiene rubber; Rubber nanocomposite

Ruksana Sirach, Pragnesh N Dave,
β -Cyclodextrin polymer/zinc ferrite nanocomposite: Synthesis, characterization, and adsorption application for the removal of malachite green and Congo red,
Journal of Hazardous Materials Advances,
Volume 10,
2023,
100300,
ISSN 2772-4166,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.hazadv.2023.100300.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772416623000712)
Abstract: To address the worsening water scarcity resulting from the growing worldwide population's increased demand for potable water and restricted availability of potable water sources, it is necessary to eliminate contaminants from wastewater. This will enhance the quality of water available for use in various sectors and free up drinkable water. Adsorption is one of the simple, efficient, and cost-effective ways to remove contaminants from wastewater. However, many previously used adsorbent materials have issues such as low selectivity, poor regeneration ability, lack of functional modifications, and high swelling, to name a few. In this study, the authors aimed to enhance the adsorption of malachite green by using a novel nanocomposite (β-CDPZF) based on a β-Cyclodextrin (β-CD) based polymer containing Zinc ferrite (ZF) nanofiller. The study compared the adsorption efficiency of the nanocomposite for both malachite green (MG) and Congo red (CR). The β-CDPZF nanocomposite was characterized using various analytical techniques such as Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), dynamic light scattering (DLS), Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area analyzer, field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), and thermogravimetry (TG) analysis. The study investigated the influence of various experimental conditions on the adsorption process, and the isotherm, kinetics, and thermodynamic parameters was determined for the adsorption. The results showed that β-CDPZF had a fourteen times higher adsorption capacity (Langmuir) for the removal of MG compared to CR. Additionally, β-CDPZF could be effectively used for up to five regeneration reuse cycles while retaining >90% removal efficiency for MG. Therefore, the β-CDPZF nanocomposite can serve as a cost-effective, less swellable, and efficient adsorbent for the removal of cationic MG dye.
Keywords: Cyclodextrin; Adsorption; Langmuir; Malachite green; Polymer nanocomposite

Elssa George, Abhisha Manoli, Poornima Vijayan P., Henri Vahabi, Soney C. George, Saithalavi Anas,
Polydopamine modified polymeric carbon nitride nanosheet based ABS nanocomposites for better thermal, frictional and mechanical performance,
Nano-Structures & Nano-Objects,
Volume 35,
2023,
100987,
ISSN 2352-507X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoso.2023.100987.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352507X23000501)
Abstract: The synthesis and modification of polymeric carbon nitride nanosheets (NPCN) and their exploration toward enhanced thermal and mechanical properties of acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) nanocomposites are described. Polymeric carbon nitride was synthesized by the thermal treatment method and subsequently modified using polydopamine (PDA) through a simple chemical treatment. Both raw and modified fillers (NPCN and PDA@NPCN) were characterized using detailed spectroscopic analyses. The modified filler was then used to fabricate composites with an ABS polymer matrix, targeting the improvement of various properties of the resulting nanocomposites. Although NPCN has been used to modify various polymer matrices, NPCN modified with polydopamine via. non-covalent interactions has not been reported to date for modifying the properties of polymers. Here, the non-covalent interaction developed via a promising eco-friendly bioinspired method has a positive impact on improving the performances of the ABS matrix. The major objective of the current study is to investigate the interfacial interaction between polydopamine modified polymeric carbon nitride nanosheets and the ABS matrix, and to determine its influence on the thermal, frictional and mechanical performance of the developed nanocomposite. Preliminary analyses indicated the successful incorporation and interaction between PDA@NPCN and ABS. The mechanical studies of the nanocomposites revealed that the tensile strength and frictional behavior improved up to 29 and 51%, respectively, with the lower addition of PDA@NPCN content. Pyrolysis-combustion flow calorimetric studies showed that NPCN had no negative effect on the flammability of ABS. This approach finds potential applications in enhancing the bearing nature of the polymer system without affecting its thermal stability and flammability.
Keywords: Tribology; Tensile strength; Nanofiller; Thermoplastic; Thermal stability; Surface modification; Dopamine

R.J. Sengwa, Chandra Prabha Charan,
ZnO nanofiller concentrations modified P(VDF-HFP)/PEO polymer matrix-based nanocomposites of enhanced optical and dielectric properties for emerging optoelectronic and energy storage devices,
Surfaces and Interfaces,
Volume 46,
2024,
103945,
ISSN 2468-0230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2024.103945.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468023024001044)
Abstract: Wide bandgap metal oxide nanoparticles incorporated polymer blend matrix-based polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) are established as innovative multifunctional and properties tunable materials in the dimensional design and fabrication of promising performance extensive flexible type advanced devices. For further progress in these materials, herein, the detailed structural and promising properties of solution-cast prepared ternary PNC films, composed of poly(vinylidene fluoride-co-hexafluoropropylene) P(VDF-HFP)/ poly(ethylene oxide) PEO (50/50 wt%) host matrix and zinc oxide (ZnO) nanofiller (0, 1, 2, 5, and 10 wt%), are characterized. A sequence of employed experimental techniques, namely SEM, XRD, FTIR, and DSC, confirm that the surface morphology, polymorphic crystallographic character, polymer-polymer interactions, polymer-nanoparticle interfaces, crystalline phase thermal transitions, and degree of crystallinity of these PNCs largely affected with varying nanofiller concentrations. The optical study conducted with a UV–Vis spectrophotometer revealed high photo sensing and UV shielding characteristics with an energy bandgap of about 3.0 eV, demonstrating widespread applications of these semiconducting PNC materials in emerging optoelectronic device technologies. The broadband dielectric spectroscopic (BDS) characterization over the 20 Hz–1 GHz range explained harmonic field frequency and nanofiller concentration tunable dielectric permittivity (about 3 to 13) with low losses and multiple relaxation processes, predominantly ruled by microstructural interfaces and interactions developed in these ternary hybrid complex materials. The meaningful broadband dielectric characteristics of P(VDF-HFP)/PEO/ZnO materials demonstrated that they could be used as innovative nanodielectrics for energy storage purposes in capacitive devices, and flexible dielectric substrate and insulators for the fabrication of frequency-adjustable discrete and integrated microelectronic devices.
Keywords: P(VDF-HFP)/PEO blend; ZnO nanoparticles; Nanodielectrics; Polymorphism; Energy bandgap

Rajita Sanaka, Santosh Kumar Sahu,
Experimental investigation into mechanical, thermal, and shape memory behavior of thermoresponsive PU/MXene shape memory polymer nanocomposite,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 2,
2024,
e24014,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e24014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024000458)
Abstract: This research presents an experimental investigation into the mechanical, thermal, and shape memory behavior of a thermos-responsive polyurethane (PU) reinforced with 0–1.0 wt % of MXene (Ti3C2Tx) nanofiller. The PU/MXene nanocomposites were fabricated using sonication and injection molding route. The 0.5 wt % PU/MXene nanocomposite showed the optimum mechanical properties i.e. tensile modulus, tensile strength, and hardness value, which are improved by 22, 281, and 19 %, respectively, compared to pure PU. The improvement is observed in melting temperature (Tm), the heat of melting (hm), crystallization temperature (Tc), and the heat of crystallization (hc) results. The percentage of crystallinity revealed enhancements of 6 %, 18 %, 24 %, and 34 % for 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, and 0.5 wt % PU/MXene samples respectively compared to pure PU. The findings from the shape recovery experiments demonstrated that the inclusion of MXene has no impact on both the shape fixity and shape recovery performance. The PU/MXene nanocomposite with improved mechanical and thermal properties can find potential applications in robotics actuators, medical devices, sensors, etc.
Keywords: Shape memory polymer nanocomposite; Polyurethane; MXene; Mechanical properties; Thermal properties; Shape memory behavior

Dongyi Wu, Haiping Xu, Hongfei Li, Ziyue Wang, Wei Xiong, Lihe Guo, George Chen,
Simultaneous Improvements in Energy Density and Thermal Conductivity of PAN Polymer Nanocomposites Enabled by Core-Shell Structure BZCT@BNNS Nanofibers,
Materials Today Nano,
2024,
100501,
ISSN 2588-8420,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtnano.2024.100501.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2588842024000518)
Abstract: If the heat generated by electronic devices in high-power applications cannot be dissipated in a timely manner, it will not only affect the use of the equipment but also reduce its service life. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop thin films of dielectric nanocomposites with high thermal conductivity, high energy storage, and excellent flexibility and electrical insulation performance. In this study, we reported the successful preparation of BZCT nanofibers (BZCT NFs) and core-shell structures BZCT@BNNS nanofibers using electrospinning and coaxial electrospinning techniques, respectively, and there were used to composite with polyacrylonitrile (PAN) polymer matrix to prepare BZCT NFs/PAN and BZCT@BNNS/PAN dielectric nanocomposites thin film. Research has found that when the shell thickness of BNNS is 15 nm and BZCT@BNNS (15 nm) volume fraction is 20 vol%, the comprehensive performance of the dielectric nanocomposites is the best, with thermal conductivity and energy storage performance of 3.36 W m-1K-1 and 12.23 J/cm3, respectively. Therefore, the nanocomposites thin film can be used as a potential high-performance dielectric material for thermal management applications in high-power density electronic devices.
Keywords: coaxial electrospinning; core-shell structured nanofibers; dielectric properties; energy storage performance; thermal conductivity

Richeng Lian, Qingyao Gao, Zexuan Zhao, Mingyu Ou, Xinliang Liu, Lei Liu, Xilei Chen, Chuanmei Jiao,
Hierarchical MXene@PBA nanohybrids towards high-efficiency flame retardancy and smoke suppression of robust yet tough polymer nanocomposites at ultra-low additions,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 267,
2023,
111074,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2023.111074.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836823005772)
Abstract: Developing efficient flame-retardant MXene-based polymeric materials with enhanced mechanical properties has been a huge challenge. Herein, Prussian blue analogues (PBAs) were used to modify the surface of MXene nanosheets via an electrostatic self-assembly method to construct hierarchical MXene-based nanohybrids (MXene@PBA). Then, MXene@PBA was incorporated into the epoxy matrix to fabricate high-performance epoxy nanocomposites (EP-MXene@PBA). The study indicates that hierarchical MXene@PBA exhibits excellent dispersion performance in the epoxy matrix. Notably, MXene@PBA results in high-efficiency flame retardancy and smoke suppression for epoxy nanocomposites at ultra-low additions. What is very surprising is that only 1.0 wt% MXene@PBA can easily enhance the UL-94 rating of EP-1.0%MXene@PBA to V0. Meanwhile, the peak heat release rate (pHRR), total smoke production (TSP), and peak CO production rate (pCO) are remarkably reduced by 36.70%, 34.28%, and 43.48%, compared to those of the pristine epoxy resin, respectively. Furthermore, the 1.0 wt% MXene@PBA nanohybrids can enhance the flexural and impact strengths of EP-1.0%MXene@PBA. This work provides a feasible strategy for the creation of multifunctional MXene derivatives and their polymeric nanocomposites and holds great promise for many industrial applications.
Keywords: MXene; Epoxy nanocomposites; Fire safety; Mechanical properties

Mengqing Yang, Lei Cao, Pingping Yang, Jun Jiang, Weifu Sun, Ying Li, Weiguo Li,
Temperature-dependent mechanical properties of graphene nanoplatelet reinforced polymer nanocomposites: Micromechanical modeling and interfacial analysis,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 270,
2024,
111143,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2023.111143.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836823006467)
Abstract: One of the challenges to be addressed in the reasonable prediction of the mechanical properties of nanocomposites at elevated temperatures is the quantitative characterization of the temperature-dependent interfacial behavior. In this study, the temperature-dependent mechanical properties for graphene nanoplatelets (GNPs) reinforced polymer-matrix nanocomposites are modeling based on the nonlinear interfacial shear stress transfer mechanism. Besides, the influence of interfacial debonding, polymer matrix plasticity, thermomechanical parameters of components, and their evolution with temperature, as well as the orientation, dimensions and volume fractions of GNPs is considered. The Young's modulus, yield/ultimate strength, and stress-strain relationships at elevated temperatures are predicted and are verified by the available experimental data. Compared to the extended room-temperature models previously established, the proposed model considering the microscopic structures achieves higher prediction accuracy with only basic material parameters input. Furthermore, the temperature-dependent interfacial mechanical behavior is analyzed. The initial strain of debonding and the maximum debonding ratio of the interface at elevated temperatures are calculated. The micromechanical modeling establishes the quantitative relationships between the temperature-dependent interfacial behavior and the mechanical properties of nanocomposites. This study deepens the understanding of the mechanical behavior of the interface and their evolution with temperature, which contributes to the prediction of the high-temperature mechanical performance and reliability analysis of nanocomposites.
Keywords: Nanocomposites; Micromechanical modeling; Temperature; Interfacial behavior; Mechanical properties

Ning Liu, Shaoheng Li, Xianqiao Wang,
Mechanism of coupling polymer thickness and interfacial interactions on strength and toughness of non-covalent nacre-inspired graphene nanocomposites,
Composites Science and Technology,
Volume 241,
2023,
110124,
ISSN 0266-3538,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compscitech.2023.110124.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0266353823002178)
Abstract: Nanoconfinement resulting from interfacial attraction leads to the formation of polymer interphases with outstanding stiffness, which profoundly impacts the toughness and strength of non-covalent nacre-inspired nanocomposites with “brick-and-mortar” structures. Nonetheless, challenges arise due to discrepancies in interphase thickness characterization and ambiguity in nanoscopic foundations of interfacial stiffening, which hinders systematic understanding of strengthening and toughening mechanisms. To address these issues, we conduct coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the effect of polymer phase thickness and interfacial strength on the toughness and strength of graphene-polyethylene nanocomposites. Our results indicate that when the interfacial adhesion is equal to 0.12 J/m2, nanocomposites possessing a polyethylene phase thickness of 3 nm exhibit significantly greater yield strength (590.8 ± 3.3 MPa) than those of other thicknesses, while nanocomposites with polyethylene phase thickness of 13 nm exhibit the highest toughness (83.3 ± 1.7 MJ/m3). When the interfacial interaction adhesion increases from 0.12 to 1.75 J/m2, both the yield strength and toughness of nanocomposites with polymer thickness 3 nm experience a three-phase increase, reaching up to 1442.3 ± 107.7 MPa and 119.8 ± 8.4 MJ/m3, respectively. The aforementioned improvement in both strength and toughness can be attributed to the nanoconfinement originating from strong interfacial adhesion, which enhances the stiffness and strength of the polymer glues filling the gaps of graphene “bricks”. Furthermore, the deviation of the simulation results from the shear-lag model with mechanical properties of bulk polymer can be remedied with the nanoconfinement effect and polymer stretch taken into account. Our findings provide timely guidance for future design of non-covalent nacre-inspired graphene-based polymer nanocomposites with high toughness and strength.
Keywords: Nanoconfinement; Interfacial interaction strength; Nacre-inspired nanocomposites; Coarse-grained molecular dynamics; Graphene; Shear-lag model

Sharif Ullah, Habib Nasir, Tehmina Akhtar, Sumera Mahboob, Syeda Aqsa Batool Bukhari, Khalid Hussain Thebo,
Efficient removal of the organophosphate pesticide, profenofos using polymer-stabilized microporous Fe2O3-ZnO nanocomposite: Kinetic and thermodynamic analysis,
Applied Surface Science,
Volume 662,
2024,
160027,
ISSN 0169-4332,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2024.160027.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169433224007402)
Abstract: In the contemporary landscape of scientific research, the development of inhibitors for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) holds significance due to their dual application as chemical warfare agents (CWAs) and pesticides. These compounds, whether intentionally deployed for malicious purposes, used in agriculture to combat pests, or accidentally released, pose a substantial threat to humanity. Consequently, there is a dire need to create efficient nanocatalysts capable of eliminating organophosphate toxic substances. This study focuses on the synthesis of a nanocomposite catalyst comprised of polymer-stabilized Fe2O3-ZnO, characterized as porous oval-shaped clusters that exhibit exceptional proficiency in the degradation of the pesticide profenofos (PF). This degradation process is remarkably swift, occurring within a short timeframe under both dark and light conditions. Porosity enhancement was achieved through the combination of polymeric stabilizing agents, namely polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) and methyl cellulose (MC). Notably, the highest concentration of profenofos (1825 mg/L) was directly introduced to the Fe2O3-ZnO nanocomposite catalyst. Remarkably, 100 % degradation was achieved within just 60 min in the absence of light, highlighting the feasibility of dark treatment as an effective degradation pathway. The kinetics of the reaction were evaluated using Lagergren pseudo-first order and Ho/McKay pseudo-second order kinetic models, employing varying catalyst doses and profenofos concentrations. The results indicated that the reaction predominantly follows second-order kinetics. Furthermore, thermodynamic parameters, including the change in Gibbs free energy (ΔG), entropy (ΔS), and enthalpy (ΔH), were assessed, revealing the spontaneous and exothermic nature of the reaction. Additionally, a proposed degradation pathway for the chemical warfare agent stimulant, profenofos, was elucidated. To our knowledge, this is the inaugural documentation showcasing the remarkable efficiency of a polymer-stabilized Fe2O3-ZnO nanocomposite catalyst in degrading the organophosphate pesticide, profenofos, achieving rapid degradation rates even under dark conditions. The findings contribute to the advancement of catalytic materials for environmental remediation and provide important insights into the kinetics, thermodynamics, and degradation pathways of organophosphate compounds.
Keywords: Porous Fe2O3-ZnO nanocomposite; Pesticide; Degradation of profenofos; GC–MS and NMR

Niyaz M. Sadiq, Rebar T. Abdulwahid, Shujahadeen B. Aziz, H.J. Woo, Mohd F.Z. Kadir,
Chitosan as a suitable host for sustainable plasticized nanocomposite sodium ion conducting polymer electrolyte in EDLC applications: Structural, ion transport and electrochemical studies,
International Journal of Biological Macromolecules,
Volume 265, Part 1,
2024,
130751,
ISSN 0141-8130,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.130751.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141813024015551)
Abstract: The challenge in front of EDLC device is their low energy density compared to their battery counter parts. In the current study, a green plasticized nanocomposite sodium ion conducting polymer blend electrolytes (PNSPBE) was developed by incorporating plasticized Chitosan (CS) blended with polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), doped with NaBr salt with various concentration of CaTiO3 nanoparticles. The most optimized PNSPBE film was subsequently utilized in an EDLC device to evaluate its effectiveness both as an electrolyte and a separator. Structural and morphological changes were assessed using XRD and SEM techniques. The PNSPBE film demonstrated a peak ionic conductivity of 9.76×10−5 S/cm, as determined through EIS analysis. The dielectric and AC studies provided further confirmation of structural modifications within the sample. Both TNM and LSV analyses affirmed the suitability of the prepared electrolyte for energy device applications, evidenced by its adequate ion transference number and an electrochemical potential window of 2.86 V. Electrochemical properties were assessed via CV and GCD techniques, confirming non-Faradaic ion storage, indicated by the rectangular CV pattern at low scan rates. The parameters associated with the designed EDLC device including specific capacitance, ESR, power density (1950 W/kg) and energy density (12.3 Wh/kg) were determined over 1000 cycles.
Keywords: Nanocomposite polymer electrolyte; Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy; XRD; EDLC; Nanoparticles

Nikhil Sharma, Rishav Kumar, Bikramjit Sharma, Deepak Jain, Romesh C. Batra,
Thermal performance of fouling-resistant polymer nanocomposite coatings in heat exchangers,
International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,
Volume 215,
2023,
124512,
ISSN 0017-9310,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijheatmasstransfer.2023.124512.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0017931023006579)
Abstract: This paper presents an experimental study on the thermal performance of novel polymer nanocomposite coatings under the fouling environments with particular emphasis on their ability to exhibit anti-fouling and anti-wetting behaviour. Two different weight fractions at 0.3%, and 0.5% of the reduced graphene oxide/Epoxy (rGO-ER7004) and reduced graphene oxide/polyurethane (rGO-UR9002) coatings were applied to stainless steel substrates by a facile spray coating technique. To evaluate the anti-fouling performance of the coatings, the specimens were immersed in the Modified Baar's Medium for 672 h. The antifouling performance was evaluated by comparing the overall heat transfer effectiveness of the nano coated and bare specimens at different immersion intervals. Three different flow rates, viz. 4 lpm, 6 lpm and 8 lpm were used to compare the heat transfer effectiveness. The incorporation of rGO lead to a significant reduction in the wettability and surface roughness of coatings. amongst all the investigated coatings, the heat exchange with rGO/UR9002 0.5 wt.% coatings showed the highest heat transfer effectiveness. A small reduction (∼10%) in the heat transfer effectiveness after an immersion in the fouling media for 672 h was noticed. This can be attributed to the accumulation of salt particles on the coatings, observed visually. Finally, the 1-D heat transfer analysis is performed using finite element method based approach to evaluate the effect of the nano coatings and foulants on the temperature drop. It is deduced that a small foulant layer can significantly impede the heat transfer across the substrate. A strong correlation (∼0.99) between the heat transfer effectiveness and temperature drop is observed.
Keywords: Anti-fouling; Thermal analysis; Heat exchanger; Polymer coatings; Finite element analysis

Zhiyuan Peng, Qifan Guo, Ling Zhang, Chunzhong Li,
High thermal conductivity and low dielectric polyimide nanocomposites using diamine-assisted mechanochemical exfoliation boron nitride and in-situ polymerization under pressure,
Chemical Engineering Journal,
Volume 488,
2024,
150824,
ISSN 1385-8947,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.150824.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1385894724023118)
Abstract: Advanced integrated circuit materials demand polymer composites with exceptional thermal conductivity and low dielectric constant to minimize power consumption and improve signal transmission. However, conventional methods of improving the thermal conductivity of composites by incorporating thermal conductive fillers result in an increase in dielectric constant, producing a huge challenge in simultaneously achieving enhanced thermal conductivity and low dielectric constant. Herein, a brick-and-mortar structure has been successfully constructed through in-situ polymerization of the diamine-assisted mechanochemical exfoliated (DAME) boron nitride (BN) with trifluoromethyl-containing PI and microporous polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) under pressure. The DAME functionalized BNNS (f-BN) exhibit high aspect ratios, few lattice defects, high yields and excellent dispersion in the POSS/PI matrix. Notably, the obtained 40 wt% f-BN/POSS/PI nanocomposite exhibits a high in-plane thermal conductivity of 17.76 W m−1 K−1 with a 488% enhancement compared to 40 wt% hBN/POSS/PI, and simultaneously maintains low dielectric constant of 2.76 and low dielectric loss of 0.0042 at 1 MHz close to the pure POSS/PI matrix. Density functional theory is utilized to reveal the possible chemical reactions between f-BN and diamine, and the impacts of interfacial functionalization on the thermal conductivity and dielectric properties of nanocomposites are illustrated by molecular dynamics simulations. Furthermore, the DAME method demonstrates good universality among polyimide matrices, and shows excellent practical implementation as a thermal interface material and flexible printed circuit board. This material provides a promising solution for integrated circuits by successfully addressing the challenge of combining low dielectric constant and high thermal conductivity in microelectronic systems.
Keywords: Polyimide nanocomposites; Nanosheet functionalization; Low dielectric properties; High thermal conductivity; Molecular dynamics

Niyaz M. Sadiq, Rebar T. Abdulwahid, Pshko A. Mohammed, Shujahadeen B. Aziz, Haw J. Woo, Mohd F.Z. Kadir,
Advancements in green polymer blend nanocomposite electrolytes (PPBNEs) and activated carbon for EDLC application with high energy density,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 93,
2024,
112282,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.112282.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24018681)
Abstract: One of the environmental challenges associated with energy storage devices is to ensure sustainable manufacturing and disposal practices to prevent the contribution of hazard wastes to the nature. This work uses green polymers, plasticizers, and nontoxic salt to design an EDLC device with moderate energy density. The nontoxic sodium bromide (NaBr) salt was used as an ion supplier for the electrolytes, and aluminum dioxide (Al2O3) was used as a nanofiller to reduce the crystalline phase. The green chitosan (CS) and polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) were blended and used as a host system to produce ion-conducting films utilizing solution casting methodology. The interaction among plasticized nanocomposite polymer blend electrolyte (PNPBE) components was observed through the FTIR and XRD methods. The simulated EIS graphs were used to derive many ion transport parameters. The examination of LSV was used to determine the range of potential window in which the films did not possess breakdown. The TNM result established ion predominance. To measure the specific capacitance (Cs) of the fabricated electric double-layer capacitor (EDLC), cyclic voltammetry (CV) was used on the CR2032 coin cell type. From the CV test, Cs was found to be 50 F g−1 at 10 mV s−1 scan rate. The galvanostatic charge-discharge (GCD) analysis has revealed an achieved energy density (E) value of 12.4 Wh kg−1 and a power density (P) value of 1400 W kg−1. Furthermore, the cell demonstrated excellent stability and high efficiency over 1000 cycles, indicating the high performance of the fabricated EDLC device. The results of this study provide evidence that nano-fillers can enhance device performance and improve stability.
Keywords: Green electrolyte; Structural studies; Impedance study; EDLC; Power and energy density; Transport parameters

Won Ho Shin, Soon Kim, Sung Youb Kim,
Theoretical modeling for piezoresistive behavior of aligned carbon nanotube/polymer nanocomposites accounting for evolution of agglomerates morphology,
Materials Today Communications,
Volume 34,
2023,
104931,
ISSN 2352-4928,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtcomm.2022.104931.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S235249282201772X)
Abstract: In this study, the electromechanical response of carbon nanotube (CNT)-reinforced polymer nanocomposites subjected to uniaxial deformation was investigated theoretically. For this purpose, a comprehensive analytical model that incorporated critical factors affecting the piezoresistive properties of CNT/polymer nanocomposites was proposed. To determine the effects of field-induced CNT alignment and the corresponding prolonged agglomeration morphology, an effective resistor network was established to predict piezoresistivity defined as the normalized resistance change of CNT/polymer nanocomposites. The proposed model accurately described the piezoresistive properties of randomly aligned CNT-based composites compared with a previously developed model, and its further validation was performed using experimental data obtained from the literature for CNTs aligned in a polymer matrix. A similar approach was used for the determination of a percolation threshold, which strongly correlated with piezoresistivity. In addition, the effect of each individual critical factor was examined to establish a desirable set of parameters that would either decrease the percolation threshold or increase the piezoresistivity of composites.
Keywords: Carbon nanotubes; Polymer-matrix composites (PMCs); Agglomeration morphology; Percolation threshold; Piezoresistivity

Morris KAMEL, Gehad Abd EL-FATAH, Amal ZAHER, Ahmed A. FARGHALI, Sarah I. OTHMAN, Ahmed A. ALLAM, Hassan Ahmed RUDAYNI, Asmaa M. SALAH, Mohamed E.M. HASSOUNA, Rehab MAHMOUD,
Cost-effective layered double hydroxides/conductive polymer nanocomposites for electrochemical detection of wastewater pollutants,
Chinese Journal of Analytical Chemistry,
Volume 52, Issue 3,
2024,
100368,
ISSN 1872-2040,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cjac.2024.100368.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1872204024000136)
Abstract: There is an urgent need to develop multifunctional cost-effective nanomaterials and nanocomposites that can be used in numerous applications while showing high efficiency and cheaper implementation compared to conventional techniques and/or materials. In this work, zinc/iron layered double hydroxide (LDH) and polyaniline (PANI) were synthesized as a model LDH/conductive polymer nanocomposite, which is a promising family of cheap multifunctional materials. This electrochemical properties of this nanocomposite was investigated for detection of heavy metal (HM) ions in water streams, using lead as a model HM. In the present work, zinc/iron LDH and PANI was assigned as carbon paste electrode modifier. The composite was fully characterized using various characterization techniques including X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscope (SEM), and Fourier transform InfraRed (FTIR). The electrochemical redox reactions of lead (II) ions at the modified electrode interface were investigated using cyclic voltammetry (CV), differential pulse voltammetry (DPV), Accordingly, a linear relation of Pb2+ ions was achieved in the concentration range 1–80 µM with limit of detection (LOD) was 167.8 nM and limit of quantification (LOQ) was 559.4 nM. Furthermore, the cost of using such material for lead removal using a typical adsorption study was compared to using conventional inductively coupled plasma (ICP) or atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS) equipment for tracking HM removal during the adsorption process. Cost analysis revealed that the final overall cost of the modified carbon paste electrode is estimated as 1.25 USD. This cost represents less than 0.1% of the total cost required to conduct the same adsorption study using a typical ICP or AAS equipment. This composite can pave the road towards portable measurements for onsite detection of wastewater pollutants using cheap disposable-electrodes as compared to massive expensive off site equipment such as ICP and AAS.
Keywords: Multifunctional nanocomposites; Electrochemical detection; Atomic absorption spectrophotometer; Cost-effective nanomaterials; Differential pulse voltammetry

Yongqian Shi, Ansheng Yao, Junqiang Han, Hengrui Wang, Yuezhan Feng, Libi Fu, Fuqiang Yang, Pingan Song,
Architecting fire safe hierarchical polymer nanocomposite films with excellent electromagnetic interference shielding via interface engineering,
Journal of Colloid and Interface Science,
Volume 640,
2023,
Pages 179-191,
ISSN 0021-9797,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.02.085.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021979723002679)
Abstract: Integrating high flame retardancy and excellent electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding into polymetric materials is extremely necessary, and well dispersing conductive fillers into polymeric materials is still a great challenge because of incompatible interfacial polarity between polymer matrix and conductive fillers. Therefore, under the premise of maintaining integral conductive films in the process of hot compression, constructing a novel EMI shielding polymer nanocomposites where conductive films closely adhere to polymer nanocmposites layers should be a fascinating stratety. In this work, salicylaldehyde-modified chitosan decorated titanium carbide nanohybrid (Ti3C2Tx-SCS) was combined with piperazine-modified ammonium polyphosphate (PA-APP) to fabricate thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU) nanocomposites, which were used for construction of hierarchical nanocomposite films by inserting reduced graphene oxide (rGO) films into TPU/PA-APP/Ti3C2Tx-SCS nanocomposite layers through our self-developed air assisted hot pressing technique. The total heat release, total smoke release and total carbon monoxide yield for TPU nanocomposite containing 4.0 wt% Ti3C2Tx-SCS nanohybrid were 58.0%, 58.4% and 75.8% lower than those of pristine TPU, respectively. Besides, the hierarchical TPU nanocomposite film containing 1.0 wt% Ti3C2Tx-SCS presented an averaged EMI shielding effectiveness of 21.3 dB in X band. This work provides a promising strategy for fabricating fire safe and EMI shielding polymer nanocomposites.
Keywords: Hierarchical structure; Air-assisted hot pressing technique; Flame retardancy; Electromagnetic interference shielding; Toxic fumes suppression; Multiple effect

Dai-Lin Zhou, Jian Wang, Hongwei Bai, Di Han, Qiang Fu,
High-Performance low-k Poly(dicyclopentadiene)-POSS nanocomposites achieved by frontal polymerization,
Chemical Engineering Journal,
Volume 485,
2024,
150140,
ISSN 1385-8947,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.150140.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1385894724016267)
Abstract: Low dielectric constant (low-k, k < 2.5) thermoset polymers play a crucial role in high-frequency communication technology and the microelectronic industry. However, existing low-k materials often suffer from time- and energy-consuming preparation procedures and have k values greater than 2.5. Herein, we present the frontal ring opening metathesis polymerization (FROMP) of dicyclopentadiene and phenyl-functionalized POSS bearing three and four norbornene groups (i.e., T7N3 and T8N4), enabling the rapid formation of high-performance low-k nanocomposites through a low energy consumption approach. The results reveal that T7N3 and T8N4 exhibit excellent compatibility with poly(dicyclopentadiene) (PDCPD) without adversely affecting the materials’ FROMP behaviors. Consequently, by increasing IC-POSS content, both the dielectric and comprehensive properties of PDCPD can be significantly enhanced while the influence of IC-POSS type remains limited. In particular, both PT7-40 (40 wt% of T7N3, k = 2.1) and PT8-40 (40 wt% of T8N4, k = 2.12) demonstrate the lowest k values; moreover, PT8-40 exhibits the highest dimensional stability (with a coefficient of thermal expansion of 79.3 ppm oC−1), glass transition temperature (188 °C), elastic modulus (2.32 GPa), yield strength (70.4 MPa), and hydrophobicity among all samples. By programming the front velocity, these materials can be processed into complex structures through a combination of FROMP and three-dimensional printing techniques. This work offers a facile and energy-efficient approach for preparing low-k materials with on-demand structures and properties.
Keywords: Nanocomposites; Dielectrics; POSS; Frontal polymerization; Dicyclopentadiene

Mohammad Shamsaddin Saeed, Hoda Hekmatara,
MWCNT decorated Magnetic/Ceramic/Polymer (Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/PANI) nanocomposite with enhanced microwave absorption at an entire X and Ku frequency bands,
Ceramics International,
Volume 50, Issue 7, Part B,
2024,
Pages 11795-11803,
ISSN 0272-8842,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2024.01.084.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0272884224000877)
Abstract: Two new magnetic/ceramic/carbon and magnetic/ceramic/polymer/carbon nanocomposites were created by decorating the surface of MWCNT with magnetic/ceramic (Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2 NPs) and magnetic/ceramic/polymer (Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/PANI). First, in order to have a narrow size distribution and high saturation magnetization, Fe2O3/Fe3O4 NPs were produced successively under ideal conditions. Subsequently, Fe2O3/Fe3O4 NPs were produced by coating them with a thin layer of SiO2. Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/MWCNT nanocomposite was created by applying Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/NPs at a specified weight ratio (1/2) to the MWCNT surface. Subsequently, Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2 NPs were utilized as an initiator to polymerize the aniline; as a result, Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/PANI NPs were created and the polyaniline grew at their surface. Ultimately, Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/PANI NPs were added to MWCNT at a weight ratio of 1/2, resulting in the synthesis of a Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/PANI/MWCNT nanocomposite. XRD, SEM, and TEM pictures verified the effective synthesis of Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/MWCNT and Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/PANI/MWCNT nanocomposites. By evaluating their EM characteristics, the microwave absorption properties of these composites were characterized. The findings shown that for the Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/MWCNT nanocomposite with an effective bandwidth of 5.7 GHz, the minimum reflection loss reached −18.5 dB. For the Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/PANI/MWCNT nanocomposite, there was a considerable improvement in both minimum reflection loss and bandwidth in comparison with similar composites. The Fe2O3/Fe3O4/SiO2/PANI/MWCNT demonstrated a minimum reflection loss of −87dB over whole frequency range (8–18 GHz) with an effective bandwidth.
Keywords: Fe2O3; Fe3O4; Silica; Polyaniline; MWCNT; Magnetic/ceramic nanoparticles; Microwave absorption

Menglei Sun, Pengjun Li, Mao Wang, Yidan Liang, Xudong Yang, Shujie Pang,
Carbonized polymer dots‐silver nanoclusters nanocomposite with dual-emission for property ratiometric fluorescence and visual detection of temperature,
Diamond and Related Materials,
Volume 141,
2024,
110559,
ISSN 0925-9635,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diamond.2023.110559.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925963523008841)
Abstract: A dual-emission fluorescent nanocomposite was prepared. Carbonized polymer dots were prepared by a one-step hydrothermal method using chitosan as the carbon source. Silver nanoclusters were synthesized by UV lamp irradiation using polymethacrylic acid as the stabilizer. The carbonized polymer dots and silver nanoclusters were self-assembled by electrostatic force to prepare a dual-emission fluorescent nanocomposite that responds to temperature changes. The carbonized polymer dots‐silver nanoclusters (CPDs-AgNCs) nanocomposites showed two emission peaks at 401 and 609 nm under the same excitation wavelength. It has an excellent linear relationship between 20 °C and 80 °C. And by introducing the dual-emission fluorescent nanocomposite into the membrane system, the temperature was successfully detected, which Broadens the application of rapid and convenient temperature detection.
Keywords: Carbonized polymer dots; Fluorescence; Nanoclusters; Temperature detection; Nanocomposite

Alhulw H. Alshammari, Majed Alshammari, Mohammed Ibrahim, Khulaif Alshammari, Taha Abdel Mohaymen Taha,
Processing polymer film nanocomposites of polyvinyl chloride – Polyvinylpyrrolidone and MoO3 for optoelectronic applications,
Optics & Laser Technology,
Volume 168,
2024,
109833,
ISSN 0030-3992,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlastec.2023.109833.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030399223007260)
Abstract: Polymer blends nanocomposites films have come to the forefront of optoelectronics research because of their superior physicochemicalproperties as well as their ease and low-cost of fabrications. In this paper, the development and characterization of novel molybdenum trioxide (MoO3) nanoparticle-modified polyvinyl chloride (PVC)/ polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) polymer films were described via investigating the structure of the polymer blend matrix as well as the structural changes due to dispersion of MoO3 nanoparticles. The blend films have the potential to be a highly nonlinear optical material. The strength of complexity between the polymer and nano-MoO3 and the effect of the MoO3 addition on the optoelectronic characteristics of the nanocomposite films are investigated. The absorption process is dominated by direct and indirect allowed optical transitions. Optical energy gap analysis shows an increase in the direct/indirect energy gaps when MoO3 content was raised up to 0.6 wt%. Moreover, by alternating the MoO3 content, we were able to tune the dispersion energy, refractive index, and oscillator strength of the nanocomposite films. The results demonstrate an improvement of nonlinear optical response in the films produced from nanocomposites. The experimental results presented in this work indicate that tuning the content of MoO3 nanoparticles is a critical part in fabricating a reliable composites material for optoelectronic applications.
Keywords: Polymer blend; MoO3 nanoparticle; Refractive index; Oscillator strength

Gurdial Blugan, Natalia Kovalska, Dominik Knozowski, Pradeep V.W. Sasikumar, Wim J. Malfait, Silvia Paz, Piotr Madajski, Mateusz Leśniewski, Mirosław Sawczak, Balanand Santhosh, Monika Wilamowska-Zawłocka, Matthias M. Koebel,
Polymer derived SiOC/Sn nanocomposites from a low-cost single source precursor as anode materials for lithium storage applications,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 89,
2024,
111676,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.111676.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24012611)
Abstract: Metal- based materials capable of lithium (Li) alloy formation are key to realization of the next generation of high-energy density anodes for Li-ion batteries, owing to their high storage capacity. Designing a good supporting matrix is essential for homogeneously nesting these metallic nanodomains, to effectively utilize their high capacity while tackling the volume expansion issues. Silicon oxycarbides (SiOC), obtained via a polymer derived approach, have recently gained interest as efficient host matrices. However, the high price and limited availability of the precursors for these ceramics present a challenge for their use at a commercial level. Sn nanoparticles, measuring less than 100 nm in size, are formed in-situ within the amorphous SiOC matrix using an economical single-source precursor. The polymeric precursor was indigenously developed from a novel, low cost vinyl functionalized polysiloxane and tin dioleate as the Sn source. Tin dioleate at different wt%, viz. 33–56 %, was uniformly crosslinked with the Q-T polysiloxane and was pyrolysed at 1000 °C in an argon atmosphere to obtain the SiOC/Sn nanocomposites. The electrochemical characterization of SiOC/Sn ceramic nanocomposite anodes exhibit outstanding specific capacities of 650 and 750 mAh g−1 at 372 and 18.6 mA g−1, respectively after 400 charge/discharge cycles.
Keywords: Q-T polysiloxane; Sn; Nanocomposites; Anode; Li-ion battery

Asok Aparna, Jitha S Jayan, Rani Alphonsa Jose, Kuruvilla Joseph, Appukuttan Saritha,
Robust shape memory chlorobutyl rubber/boron nitride polymer nanocomposites for oil-water separation application,
Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers,
2024,
105623,
ISSN 1876-1070,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtice.2024.105623.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1876107024002815)
Abstract: Background
Boron nitride (h-BN), an excellent 2D material finds exceptional applications in various fields owing to its unique characteristics including excellent hydrophobicity. Incorporation of boron nitride in polymer matrices is a captivating strategy by the scientific community to tune the properties of polymer. Interestingly, the possibilities of incorporating h-BN in chlorobutyl rubber (CIIR) matrix has never been considered and tried till now. Moreover, the use of CIIR to create a clean environment and reduce water pollution is an unexplored area even though the CIIR rubber possess excellent barrier properties.
Methods
In this work, two techniques were used for the fabrication of BNNS/CIIR nanocomposite. We exfoliated h-BN via chemical exfoliation method and tried the reinforcement of CIIR with BNNS via solution intercalation method. Shape memory analysis was performed with the help of stearic acid and oil-water separation analysis was achieved through an easy experimental technique.
Significant findings
Enhanced mechanical strength of 11.57 MPa, improved thermal degradation temperature and char yield, higher glass transition temperature of -45.98° were observed for BNNS/CIIR nanocomposite reinforced with higher BNNS loading owing to the uniform distribution and better intercalation of BNNS in CIIR. Excellent shape memory was exhibited by CIIR matrix when reinforced up to 5 g BNNS. In addition, the nanocomposites displayed excellent ability to perform oil-water separation with increase in BNNS loading owing to the good hydrophobic character of h-BN and inherent barrier properties of CIIR. Thus, the study proved successful towards the fabrication of advanced CIIR nanocomposites with excellent shape memory and oil water separation efficiency.
Keywords: Chlorobutyl rubber; Boron nitride; Thermal stability; Mechanical performance; Oil-water separation; Shape memory

D.E. Abulyazied, Shams A.M. Issa, H.A. Saudi, H.M. Abomostafa, Hesham M.H. Zakaly,
Dysprosium-enriched polymer nanocomposites: Assessing radiation shielding and optical properties,
Optical Materials,
Volume 153,
2024,
115604,
ISSN 0925-3467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optmat.2024.115604.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925346724007870)
Abstract: This paper includes a comprehensive analysis of the radiation shielding, optical properties, and structural makeup of polymer composites that contain Dy2O3 additions. XRD-pattern investigates the effect of loading Dy2O3 content on PS, with the average crystallite size of Dy2O3 decreases from 39 nm to 30 nm as Dy2O3 increases from 2.5 to 7.5 wt% in the PS matrix. The optical properties of the nanocomposites showed that with the increase in the Dy2O3 content, the transmittance, as well as the direct and indirect band gap, decreased. The EgIndirect bandgap decreased from 3.1 to 2.75 eV with a Dy2O3 increase from 0 to 7.5 wt%, while the Egdirect Bandgap reduced from 4.6 to 4.35 eV. While the Urbach energy Eu and the refractive index increase, Eu rises from 0.48 to 0.60 e V, and n improves from 1.4 to 1.78 from 0 to 7.5 wt%. In order to conduct an accurate analysis of the gamma-ray attenuation capabilities of the selected new polymer composites, these composites were manufactured with varying proportions of the additive components. With the assistance of a Na(Tl) detector, experimental assessments were carried out on the gamma rays throughout a broad spectrum of photon energies, ranging from 81 keV up to 1416 keV. The sample encased in PS/Dy7.5 demonstrates excellent radiation attenuation, and it is important to note that this novel polymer shielding material does not include any hazardous components.
Keywords: Dysprosium; Polystyrene; Polymer composite; Radiation shielding

Neethu Joseph, Aleena Ann Mathew, Elcey C. Daniel, Manoj Balachandran,
Polymer-Carbon nanocomposite: Synthesis, optical and biocidal properties,
Results in Chemistry,
Volume 5,
2023,
100826,
ISSN 2211-7156,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rechem.2023.100826.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211715623000656)
Abstract: Microorganism contamination of food storage, water treatment, pharmaceuticals, and especially biomedical equipment is a severe problem. Bacteria frequently contaminate permanent implantations after long-term usage. To successfully treat these infections, it is essential to monitor microbial activity and know how it interacts with antibodies in real-time. In this work, a nanocarbon-polymer nanocomposite (ARPD) is successfully developed, and its antibacterial activity against selected microorganisms is successfully validated. Obtained antibacterial results confirm that the photoluminescent ARPD demonstrated outstanding antibacterial action against the microorganism Escherichia coli from the selected group of bacteria. The fluorescent diagnostics and treatments offer exciting possibilities for the luminescence and biocidal activity of nanocomposite produced from ARH-PVDF nanomaterials.
Keywords: Nanocarbon-polymer; Nanocomposite; Fluorescence; Biocidal activity

Na Kyung Kwon, Taewon Kim, Seunghan Yun, Hyunhong Kim, Hyun-Wook Lee, Jongnam Park, So Youn Kim,
Decoupling of mechanical properties and ionic conductivity in a low molecular weight polymer nanocomposites with highly connected particle aggregates,
Polymer,
Volume 286,
2023,
126401,
ISSN 0032-3861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2023.126401.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0032386123007310)
Abstract: Hypothesis
High molecular weight polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) with good thermal stability and elevated mechanical strengths can serve as composite polymer electrolytes (CPEs) and thus have been considered as an alternative to conventional liquid electrolytes. However, resolving low ionic conductivity issues of CPEs arising from the low chain mobility derived from a long polymer chain remains challenging.
Experiments
Here, we introduce PNCs for use in CPEs which show 1.4 × 10−4 S/cm of ionic conductivity at room temperature with a high shear modulus of 107 Pa using a low molecular weight poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) matrix and dopamine-modified PEG brush polymer grafted-silica nanoparticles.
Findings
We found that densely interconnected supramolecular particle networks can decouple the mechanical strength and ionic conductivity, as the Li-doped interfacial polymer layer supports a direct lithium-ion transport pathway. The extensive structural and rheological studies characterized by small-angle X-ray scattering and oscillatory rheometry experiments revealed that particle connections through interfacial polymer layers play an important role in supporting the elevated mechanical and electrochemical properties with a good thermal stability of PNCs.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Composite polymer electrolyte; Interfacial polymer layer; Ionic conductivity; Mechanical strength; Small-angle X-ray scattering; Rheometry

Alhulw H. Alshammari, Majed Alshammari, Khulaif Alshammari, Nageh K. Allam, T.A. Taha,
PVC/PVP/SrTiO3 polymer blend nanocomposites as potential materials for optoelectronic applications,
Results in Physics,
Volume 44,
2023,
106173,
ISSN 2211-3797,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rinp.2022.106173.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221137972200794X)
Abstract: This paper presents, for the first time, the preparation and study of the thermal decomposition and optical properties of PVC/PVP/SrTiO3 polymer blend nanocomposites. The polymer films were characterized using X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infra-red spectroscopy (FTIR), Raman, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), and optical spectroscopy techniques. XRD spectra indicated semicrystalline structure of the PVC/PVP polymer blend and revealed cubic crystal structure of the SrTiO3 nanoparticles. The lattice constant of SrTiO3 was found to decrease from 2.79 to 2.75 Å upon increasing the concentration of the SrTiO3 nanoparticles in the blend to 0.6 wt%. The FTIR and Raman spectra revealed the strong interaction between PVC/PVP polymer blend and SrTiO3. The TGA analysis showed a slight enhancement of the polymer blend thermal stability. Moreover, the thermal kinetic parameters, such as activation energy, entropy and Gibbs free energy, of the polymer nanocomposites were lower than those of the pure PVC/PVP blend counterpart. The addition of SrTiO3 increased the optical absorption, energy gap, and linear refractive index. Furthermore, the optical susceptibility and nonlinear refractive index were significantly improved. For all polymer blends, a fluorescence peak appeared at a wavelength of 485 nm. These outcomes qualify the PVC/PVP/SrTiO3 polymer blend nanocomposites for optoelectronic applications.
Keywords: PVC/PVP blend; Gibbs free energy; Optical energy gap; Nonlinear refractive index

Maximilian Ries, Felix Weber, Gunnar Possart, Paul Steinmann, Sebastian Pfaller,
A quantitative interphase model for polymer nanocomposites: Verification, validation, and consequences regarding size effects,
Composites Part A: Applied Science and Manufacturing,
Volume 161,
2022,
107094,
ISSN 1359-835X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesa.2022.107094.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359835X22002780)
Abstract: The enhanced mechanical behavior of polymer nanocomposites with spherical filler particles is attributed to the formation of matrix-filler interphases. The nano-scale leads to particularly high interphase volume fractions while rendering experimental investigations extremely difficult. Previously, we introduced a molecular dynamics-based interphase model capturing the crucial spatial profiles of elastic and inelastic properties inside the interphase. This contribution demonstrates that our model captures polymer nanocomposites’ essential characteristics reported from experiments. To this end, we thoroughly verify and validate the model before discussing the resulting local plastic strain distribution. Furthermore, we obtain a reinforcement in terms of the overall stiffness for smaller particles and higher filler contents, while the influence of particle spacing seems negligible, matching experimental observations in the literature. This paper proposes a methodology to unravel the underlying complex mechanical behavior of polymer nanocomposites and to translate the findings into engineering quantities accessible to a broader audience and technical applications.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Interphase properties; Size effect; Finite element method

Dilek Güzel, Ercan Gürses,
A Two-Level Homogenization Approach for Polymer Nanocomposites with Coated Inclusions,
Procedia Structural Integrity,
Volume 35,
2022,
Pages 34-41,
ISSN 2452-3216,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prostr.2021.12.045.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2452321621002924)
Abstract: In polymer nanocomposites, other than the matrix and inclusion, a third phase so-called interphase, is commonly observed. Inter-phase properties affect the overall macroscopic mechanical behavior. It is crucial to model the interphase and obtain the effective composite properties accordingly. Homogenization theory is very useful and powerful; however, many of the homogenization-based techniques have deficiencies. The goal of the study is to combine two very well-known homogenization techniques to model the polymer nanocomposites with coated inclusions. One of the goals of the study is to demonstrate the deficiency that originated from the interphase modeling and overcome this problem by the proposed two-level homogenization method. This method aims to model load transfer between the matrix and the reinforcement element through the interphase in a correctly. For this purpose, first, an effective inclusion is formed using finite element homogenization, then the effective inclusion and the matrix are homogenized using micromechanics-based Double Inclusion method. The proposed method provides a remarkable improvement compared to the micromechanics-based method for the soft interphase case.
Keywords: polymer nanocomposites; homogenization theory; interphase; micromechanics

Jordan Robert, Deepak S. Chauhan, Amel Cherraj, Jonathan Buiel, Gregory De Crescenzo, Xavier Banquy,
Coiled-coil peptide-based assembly of a plasmonic core-satellite polymer-metal nanocomposite as an efficient photothermal agent for drug delivery applications,
Journal of Colloid and Interface Science,
Volume 641,
2023,
Pages 929-941,
ISSN 0021-9797,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.03.085.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021979723004447)
Abstract: Polymer-metal nanocomposites have widespread applications in biomedical fields such as imaging, catalysis, and drug delivery. These particles are characterized by combined organic and inorganic properties. Specifically, photothermal nanocomposites incorporating polymeric and plasmonic nanoparticles (NPs) have been designed for both triggered drug release and as imaging agents. However, the usual design of nanocomposites confers characteristic issues, among which are the decrease of optical properties and resulting low photothermal efficiency, as well as interactions with loaded drugs. Herein, we report the design of a core-satellite polymer-metal nanocomposite assembled by coiled-coil peptides and its superior photothermal efficiency compared to electrostatic-driven nanocomposites which is the standard design. We also found that the orientation of gold nanorods on the surface of polymeric NPs is of importance in the final photothermal efficiency and could be exploited for various applications. Our findings provide an alternative to current wrapping and electrostatic assembly of nanocomposites with the help of coiled-coil peptides and an improvement of the control over core-satellite assemblies with plasmonic NPs. It paves the way to highly versatile assemblies due to the nature of coiled-coil peptides to be easily modified and sensitive to pH or temperature.
Keywords: Plasmonic particles; Self-assembly; Coiled-coil peptides; PLA particles; Gold nanorods; Nanocomposites

Chengkai Li, Yihan Nie, Haifei Zhan, Jinshuai Bai, Tianshu Liu, Yuantong Gu,
Mechanical properties of polymer nanocomposites with randomly dispersed and cross-linked two-dimensional diamond,
Composites Science and Technology,
Volume 230, Part 1,
2022,
109722,
ISSN 0266-3538,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compscitech.2022.109722.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S026635382200464X)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites with excellent mechanical performances have been increasingly sought after in engineering applications such as biotechnology, aerospace, and automotive areas. Through molecular dynamics (MD) simulation, this work systematically assessed the tensile performance of poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) nanocomposite reinforced by randomly dispersed two-dimensional diamond-diamane. It is found that randomly dispersed diamane effectively enhances the tensile properties of PMMA with surface functionalization, and the enhancement effect can be remarkably augmented by cross-linking. Simulations reveal that the enhancement effect can be effectively tailored by the alignment of the diamane fillers. The PMMA nanocomposites exhibit much better tensile performance when the diamane fillers are uniformly aligned along the in-plane direction of the filler. Additional investigations show that larger diamane filler is preferred without cross-linking, while smaller diamane filler should be considered when cross-linking is present. Overall, the impacts of different factors on the tensile properties of PMMA nanocomposites are analysed in-depth in this work, which provides atomistic insights for the preparation of polymer nanocomposites with desired mechanical properties.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Diamane; Mechanical performance; Random dispersion; Cross-linking; Functionalization

S.T. Hameed, Talal F. Qahtan, A.M. Abdelghany, A.H. Oraby,
ZnO/CuO nanocomposite-based carboxymethyl cellulose/polyethylene oxide polymer electrolytes for energy storage applications,
Journal of Materials Research and Technology,
Volume 22,
2023,
Pages 531-540,
ISSN 2238-7854,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmrt.2022.11.118.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2238785422018233)
Abstract: As a part of this investigation, polymer nanocomposite films were obtained by the casting method whereby polyethylene oxide (PEO) was mixed with carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) at a 70:30 wt ratio (PEO/CMC) as a base before adding different concentrations (0.0, 0.3, 0.8, 2, 4, and 6 wt%) of ZnO/CuO nanocomposite (ZC NC) as a dopant, prepared by the sol-gel method. Subsequent analyses revealed that, compared with the pure mixture, the dielectric parameters and conductivity of the polymer nanocomposite (CMC/PEO-ZC NC) films markedly improved with the increase of ZC NC up to 2 wt%, while a decrement was noted for 4 and 6 wt%. Thus, the optimal concentration (CMC/PEO-ZC NC 2 wt%) was used in the subsequent investigations focusing on dielectric properties, and the temperature dependence of the dielectric parameters and conductivity. As ZC NC addition yielded beneficial outcomes, the structural and morphological changes caused by the doping process were successfully counteracted, as confirmed by the x-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) results. The calculated relaxation time (τ), activation energy (Ea), and improved dielectric properties suggest that these nanocomposite films are promising candidates for the development of solid-state supercapacitors.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; CMC/PEO; ZnO/CuO nanocomposite; XRD; AC; Dielectric properties

Arife Kübra Yontar, Sinem Çevik,
Electrospray deposited plant-based polymer nanocomposite coatings with enhanced antibacterial activity for Ti-6Al-4V implants,
Progress in Organic Coatings,
Volume 186,
2024,
107965,
ISSN 0300-9440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.porgcoat.2023.107965.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0300944023005611)
Abstract: The present study was designed to apply the Electrospray Deposition (ESD) coating on metallic biomaterials used in dentistry with plant-based polymer nanocomposite materials. Nano silvers (AgNPs) were produced with an average size of 34 nm and homogenous distribution. As the nanosilver modification rate in the coatings increased, the surface roughness decreased compared with that of the neat sample. The most mechanically and chemically stable coating samples were the 0.1 %, 0.3 %, and 0.5 % nanosilver-modified samples. In addition, plant extracts increased the mechanical strength of Polyvinyl Alcohol (PVA) coatings by at least two times compared to that of neat coatings. Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) images revealed that the surface roughness of the nanosilver-modified coatings was lower than that of the plant extract-modified and neat samples. It was observed that bacterial growth could be reduced by up to 100 times with increasing nano‑silver ratio in all nano-silver-modified coatings. Toxicity tests confirmed that the green synthesized nano-silvers did not show toxic effects on HaCaT live cells and A549 lung cancer cells, with the use of concentrations of 62 μg/mL and below in coatings.
Keywords: Biomaterials; Green synthesis; Plant extracts; Electrospray deposition; Nanosilver

Orebotse Joseph Botlhoko, Dimakatso Makwakwa, Sudhakar Muniyasamy,
Design of 3D printable boehmite alumina/thermally exfoliated reduced graphene oxide-based polymeric nanocomposites with high dielectric constant, mechanical and thermomechanical performance,
Nano-Structures & Nano-Objects,
Volume 39,
2024,
101228,
ISSN 2352-507X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoso.2024.101228.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352507X24001392)
Abstract: In this study, melt-blending was employed to blend 80 wt% poly(lactic acid) and 20 wt% poly(ε-caprolactone) (80 %PLA/20 %PCL) with boehmite alumina-thermally exfoliated reduced graphene oxide (BA-TERGO) as nanofillers. Herein, we present a novel synergy effect of BA/TERGO particles on improving the dielectric constant while maintaining dielectric loss at lower magnitudes. Also, improving the thermomechanical properties of tough PLA/PCL nanocomposite through the incorporation of a dual-filer system strategy. Consequently, remarkable increase in dielectric constant was achieved for BA-TERGO/blend nanocomposite. In particular, the blend exhibited dielectric constant of about 2.91, while the BA-TERGO/blend nanocomposite exhibited dielectric constant of about 4.93 at a frequency of 2.0 ×106 Hz and a temperature of 190 ºC. On the other hand, tensile modulus of the BA-TERGO/blend nanocomposite increased from 1908.5 MPa to 2505.2 MPa and the tensile strength increased from 70.48 MPa to 96.3 MPa when compared to that of the neat blend. BA-blend and BA-TERGO/blend nanocomposites provided the improved storage modulus and thermal stability. This finding renders PLA-based biodegradable materials suitable for tough 3D printable material with potential for integrated circuits applications.
Keywords: Dielectric constant; Mechanical properties; Thermomechanical; Tough 3D printable

B.P. Mahadevaswamy, S.M. Rumana Farheen, V.L. Yashaswini, B.S. Madhukar, R. Kavya, M.A. Sangamesha, S. Krishnaveni,
Green luminescent Cs4PbBr6@PVDF polymer nanocomposite-based hybrid nanogenerator for self-powered photosensor,
Materials Today Chemistry,
Volume 39,
2024,
102179,
ISSN 2468-5194,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtchem.2024.102179.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468519424002854)
Abstract: The exploration of innovative materials and their integration into mechanical energy harvesters represents a crucial step in addressing futuristic energy requirements. In the present work, 0D-cesium lead bromide (Cs4PbBr6) perovskite is synthesized by a modified re-precipitation technique and purposed as a dopant in polymer at an active layer of nanogenerators due to its well-defined rhombohedral crystal structure and high charge carrier mobility. The prepared Cs4PbBr6 are embedded into a polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) polymer matrix to complement the piezo-tribo properties with synergetic effect of the materials (PVDF and 0-D Cs4PbBr6). The successful synthesis of Cs4PbBr6 and nanocomposites with varying filler quantities of Cs4PbBr6 (0.00, 0.25, 0.50, 1.00, and 2.00 wt/wt%) are associated with analytical characterizations viz, TEM, P-XRD, SEM with EDS and electrical properties. The perovskite-based hybrid nanogenerators (P-HNGs) were fabricated and electrically optimized, which reveals the enhancement performance. Interestingly, the device with 2.00 wt/wt% Cs4PbBr6 witnessed greater peak-peak voltage and current of about 3.27 and 3.59 folds higher than the pristine polymer. Further, the device is used to power LEDs, charge capacitors, and operate a digital calculator. In addition, the photoluminescent property of the perovskites is brought into the practical application as a self-powered UV-photosensor using a UV light chamber. Overall in this research work, the employability of green luminescent Cs4PbBr6 is studied in the area of mechanical energy harvesting that paves the way towards research and innovation in perovskite-based self-powered technologies.
Keywords: Hybrid nanogenerators; Perovskite; Cs4PbBr6@PVDF nanocomposites; Self-powered electronics; Photosensor

Bita Ghasemi, Jakub Ševčík, Jana Toušková, Jiří Toušek, Patricie Klosse, Vojtěch Nádaždy, Karol Végsö, Peter Šiffalovič, Barbora Hanulíková, Michal Urbánek, Ivo Kuřitka, Pavel Urbánek,
Trade-off between high performance and long life due to nanofiller effects in polymer LEDs: MEH-PPV/Al2O3 nanocomposite study,
Applied Surface Science,
Volume 657,
2024,
159807,
ISSN 0169-4332,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2024.159807.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169433224005208)
Abstract: This work presents the effect of nanofiller (Al2O3) in the polymer matrix MEH-PPV - Poly[2-methoxy-5-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-1,4-phenylenevinylene] on optical, optoelectronic, and electrical properties. These properties were investigated using UV–Vis absorption, and photoluminescence spectroscopy. Exciton diffusion length was examined using the surface photovoltage (SPV) method, mobility of charge carriers was evaluated with charge extraction by linearly increasing voltage (CELIV) measurements. Information concerning the band structure was obtained using energy resolved-electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (ER-EIS). The influence of nanoparticles on the development of the micro structure in thin layers was examine with grazing-incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS). Prepared nanocomposite thin films were subsequently used as active layers in polymer light-emitting diodes. Luminance, current efficiency, and stability of prepared polymer light emitting diodes were tested. The presented work clarifies the effect of non-conductive nanofiller on the properties of the polymer matrix and on the performance of OLEDs with an active layer made of nanocomposite material.
Keywords: Al2O3 nanowires; MEH-PPV polymer; Thin composite films; PLED

M. Eghbalian, R. Ansari, S. Haghighi,
On the mechanical properties and fracture analysis of polymer nanocomposites reinforced by functionalized silicon carbide nanotubes: A molecular dynamics investigation,
Journal of Molecular Graphics and Modelling,
Volume 111,
2022,
108086,
ISSN 1093-3263,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmgm.2021.108086.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1093326321002576)
Abstract: The mechanical characteristics of reinforced polymer nanocomposites with Hydrogen (H)- and Fluorine (F)-functionalized silicon carbide nanotubes (H-and F-fSiCNTs) are investigated herein using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. The effects of covalent functionalization and chirality of SiCNT, and diverse polymer materials on Young's modulus, maximum stress, and strain to the failure point, as well as strain energy are studied. The results reveal that by increasing the functionalization degree, the maximum stress, maximum strain, elastic modulus, and strain energy decrease. The tensile strength of polymer nanocomposites containing SiCNT is higher than that of pure polymer and polymers containing functionalized silicon carbide nanotubes (fSiCNTs). It is also found that the incorporation of fSiCNT into the polymer matrix (fSiCNT/polymer) gives rise to a considerable improvement in the ultimate strength of nanocomposites compared to the pure polymer. Polymer nanocomposites reinforced by armchair SiCNTs and fSiCNTs withstand higher maximum stresses and possess less longitudinal Young's modulus as compared to the same systems comprising zigzag nanotubes. In every percent of functionalization, the zigzag F-fSiCNT/polymer tends to have a higher Young's modulus as compared to the zigzag H-fSiCNT/polymer. Similarly, the armchair F-fSiCNTs incorporated into the polyethylene (PE) matrix (F-fSiCNTs/PE) are stiffer than the armchair H-fSiCNTs/PE in each weight of functionalization. Moreover, the armchair fSiCNTs/polymer nanocomposites show higher storage of strain energy in comparison with their zigzag counterparts.
Keywords: Hydrogen- and fluorine-functionalized SiCNT; Mechanical properties; Polymer nanocomposite; Molecular dynamics simulation

Yashas Satapathy, Viktor Nikitin, John Hana, Karthik Rajan Venkatesan, Felix Tran, Si Chen, Pavel Shevchenko, Francesco De Carlo, Rajkumar Kettimuthu, Shahab Zekriardehani, Javed Mapkar, Ajay Krishnamurthy, Aniket Tekawade,
Multiscale porosity characterization in additively manufactured polymer nanocomposites using micro-computed tomography,
Additive Manufacturing,
Volume 86,
2024,
104199,
ISSN 2214-8604,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addma.2024.104199.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214860424002458)
Abstract: Extrusion-based additive manufacturing (AM) of polymer composites exhibits complex thermally driven phenomena that introduce severe discontinuities in the internal structure across length scales, especially voids or porosity. This study utilizes a high-throughput porosity characterization technique to analyze large datasets from numerous micro-computed tomography (μCT) scans to capture the influence of AM print parameters on the size, shape, and location of porosity across multiple print layers (up to a few cm) on fused granular fabrication (FGF) printers. The materials investigated include nanocomposite formulations based on commercially relevant nylon-12 and polyether ketone ketone (PEKK) materials comprising nano- or micro-sized fillers. The estimated global porosity follows an inverse linear correlation against the bulk density of the printed samples. Increasing the extrusion multiplier (EM) and the nozzle temperature while decreasing the print speeds reduces the global porosity. Outlier analyses (local porosity morphology) show that faster print speeds and higher extrusion rates result in long, slender inter-layer voids, while lower nozzle temperatures lead to large, symmetrical, inter-bead voids (at the bead junction). Lack of active chamber temperature increases inter-layer and intra-bead voids with a two-fold increase in global porosity. Overall, the micro filler-reinforced composites exhibit higher global porosity than nanofiller-reinforced composites, which is attributed to the increased mismatch in the thermal expansion coefficient between the filler and the polymers used in the study.
Keywords: Polymer; Nanocomposite; Porosity; 3D printing; X-ray tomography; Laminography; Reconstruction; Segmentation

Abhiram B.R., Debraj Ghosh,
Atomic investigation on optimal interfacial bonding for enhanced fracture properties in polymer nanocomposites,
Engineering Fracture Mechanics,
Volume 281,
2023,
109078,
ISSN 0013-7944,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engfracmech.2023.109078.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S001379442300036X)
Abstract: Functionalization of nanofillers is known to have stiffening and strengthening effects on nanocomposites through improved interfacial bonding. However, the optimality in the interfacial bonding is generally not reported in the literature. This issue is addressed here through a series of reactive molecular dynamics simulations on carbon nanotube reinforced polymer nanocomposite. For various degrees of functionalization, uniaxial tension conditions are simulated to study the stress–strain behavior, crack propagation, and fracture toughness. The J-integral is used to quantify the fracture toughness. Through these simulations we demonstrate the existence of an optimal degree of functionalization for maximum enhancement in elastic property, tensile strength, ductility, and fracture toughness. The underlying mechanics behind this optimality is identified through careful studies on crack propagation mechanisms, including crack arresting and formation of new crack surfaces. This optimality, which might also be expected in other material systems, will help in designing efficient nanocomposites.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Molecular dynamics; Optimal functionalization; Fracture toughness; Carbon nanotube

Sagar U. Patil, Josh Kemppainen, Trevor Wavrunek, Gregory M. Odegard,
The effect of gamma-ray irradiation on polymer-graphene nanocomposite interfaces,
Composites Part B: Engineering,
Volume 284,
2024,
111715,
ISSN 1359-8368,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2024.111715.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359836824005274)
Abstract: CNT yarns are used in ultra-high strength composites for use in manned deep-space vehicles. It has been previously demonstrated through experiments that gamma-ray irradiation substantially improves the mechanical performance of these composites. It is unclear how the irradiation affects the mechanical response of the CNT yarn/polymer interface that ultimately leads to these panel-level performance improvements. Physical insight into this process could enable further improvements in the CNT yarn/polymer interface design in the future. The objective of this research is to use molecular dynamics simulation to provide physical insight into the effect of gamma-ray irradiation on the mechanical behavior (interfacial interaction energy, shear resistance, adhesive strength) of the CNT yarn/polymer interface for a range of high-performance polymer systems. The simulation results indicate that gamma-ray irradiation (simulated via inclusion of defects on the CNT surface) has a most significant effect on the shear deformation resistance of CNT yarn/polymer interfaces, which likely leads to the experimentally-observed improvements in panel-level CNT yarn composites irradiated with gamma rays. The results of this study also demonstrate the importance of computational modeling in providing physical insight into observed bulk-scale material behavior. Although the predictions cannot be validated directly via experiment, such insight can ultimately lead to efficient improvements in material design (e.g. mechanical performance) that lead to further increases in panel-level composite performance.

Xiao Su, Ruoyu Wang, Xiaofeng Li, Sherif Araby, Hsu-Chiang Kuan, Mohannad Naeem, Jun Ma,
A comparative study of polymer nanocomposites containing multi-walled carbon nanotubes and graphene nanoplatelets,
Nano Materials Science,
Volume 4, Issue 3,
2022,
Pages 185-204,
ISSN 2589-9651,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoms.2021.08.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2589965121000611)
Abstract: Featuring exceptional mechanical and functional performance, MWCNTs and graphene (nano)platelets (GNPs or GnPs; each platelet below 10 ​nm in thickness) have been increasingly used for the development of polymer nanocomposites. Since MWCNTs are now cost-effective at US$30 per kg for industrial applications, this work starts by briefly reviewing the disentanglement and surface modification of MWCNTs as well as the properties of the resulting polymer nanocomposites. GNPs can be made through the thermal treatment of graphite intercalation compounds followed by ultrasonication; GNPs would have lower cost yet higher electrical conductivity over 1,400 ​S ​cm−1 than MWCNTs. Through proper surface modification and compounding techniques, both types of fillers can reinforce or toughen polymers and simultaneously add anti-static performance. A high ratio of MWCNTs to GNPs would increase the synergy for polymers. Green, solvent-free systhesis methods are desired for polymer nanocomposites. Perspectives on the limitations, current challenges and future prospects are provided.
Keywords: Graphene (nano) platelets (GNPs); Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs); Polymer nanocomposites; Synergistic effect

Tanmoy Chakraborty, Suman Saha, Kishan Gupta, Subhojit Dutta, Abhik Sinha Mahapatra, Dhananjoy Mondal, Anup Kumar Pradhan, Chanchal Chakraborty, Sukhen Das, Soumyaditya Sutradhar,
An effective microwave absorber using multi-layer Design of carbon allotrope based Co2Z hexaferrite-Polymer nanocomposite film for EMI shielding applications,
Chemical Engineering Journal,
Volume 487,
2024,
150323,
ISSN 1385-8947,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.150323.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1385894724018102)
Abstract: This report shows impressive electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding efficiency of laminated nanocomposites of PVDF containing binary nanofillers of rGO and Co2Z hexaferrite. These rGO layers in the PVDF matrix in association with magnetic nanofillers have been considered to improve interfacial polarization by accumulating charges at the interfaces of rGO-Co2Z hexaferrite-PVDF system. The crystallographic phase, chemical composition, and successful incorporation of the binary nanofillers into PVDF have been verified using XRD, XPS, RAMAN, and FESEM analysis. The J-E analysis of rGO-Co2Z hexaferrite-PVDF nanocomposite films confirm that the current density of all the nanocomposite films is very less and found in the order of 10-5 A/m2 under the maximum electric field of 70 kV/m. This indicates the emergence of polarization effect in the nanocomposite films when subjected to high external electric field without having electrical breakdown. The significant magnetization of ∼8.9 emu/g for nanocomposite films, at room temperature is beneficial for boosting the EMI shielding effectiveness due to absorption (SEA). The combination of magnetization and electrical polarization in nanocomposite film helps to attain significantly high total shielding effectiveness (SET) in the frequency range of 12–18 GHz. The shielding effectiveness study of both mono-layer and multi-layer nanocomposite films have been investigated. Improvement of SEA has also been achieved by the elevation of the thickness of the nanocomposite film within the range of 0.8 to 1.0 mm, which in turn improves SET to a value of −54.09 dB at 15.70 GHz for multi-layer system of thickness 0.861 mm with >99.999 % of attenuation whereas the mono-layer film of thickness 0.180 mm shows the SET of −47.03 dB at 14.76 GHz with an attenuation of >99.99 %.
Keywords: Solution casting method; Multi-layer structure; Magnetic-polymer nanocomposite; Magnetic property; Shielding effectiveness study

Mi Na Kim, Hyeseong Lee, Jaehyun Cho, Myung Jun Oh, Seong Hun Kim, Ji-un Jang, Seong Yun Kim,
Facile engineering strategy to control polymer chain structure for enhanced dispersion, electrical and sensing properties of nanocomposites,
Composites Part A: Applied Science and Manufacturing,
Volume 176,
2024,
107827,
ISSN 1359-835X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesa.2023.107827.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359835X23004037)
Abstract: Preventing the aggregation of nanofillers and inducing uniform filler dispersion are key parameters for improving the electrical conductivity and sensing sensitivity of nanocomposites. Although the viscosity and flow index which are determined by the polymer chain structure can significantly influence the nanofiller dispersion, few systematic structural and physical analyses have been reported. In this study, a facile engineering strategy to control the polymer chain structure was designed and applied using quad-screw extrusion (QSE) capable of transferring high shear stresses. According to the increase in rotation speed of the QSE, low molecular weight polymer chains with relatively uniform chain length were prepared, enabling the fabrication of a nanocomposite with uniform dispersion. Compared to the controls, when the optimized matrix (2000 rpm) was applied to the nanocomposite with 1 wt% multi-walled carbon nanotubes, the improved strain sensor sensitivity of 798.3% were achieved owing to the improved filler dispersion and electrical conductivity.
Keywords: A. Polymer-matrix composites (PMCs); B. Electrical properties D. Non-destructive testing; E. Extrusion

Patrick Ehi Imoisili, Mamookho Elizabeth Makhatha, Tien-Chien Jen,
Artificial Intelligence prediction and optimization of the mechanical strength of modified Natural Fibre/MWCNT polymer nanocomposite,
Journal of Science: Advanced Materials and Devices,
Volume 9, Issue 2,
2024,
100705,
ISSN 2468-2179,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsamd.2024.100705.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468217924000364)
Abstract: Artificial Intelligence (AI), techniques like artificial neural networks (ANN), and machine learning have been used to solve a variety of engineering problems. In this study, Multiwall Carbon Nanotube (MWCNT) and Natural Fibres (NF) from plantain (Musa Paradisiaca) fiber (PF), were utilized to prepare a reinforced hybrid polymer nanocomposite for advanced composite applications. A chemical solution containing potassium permanganate (KMnO4) in acetone (C3H6O) was applied to modify the fibers to alter their surface and improve adhesion and interaction between the PF/polymer matrix. To predict and optimize the tensile strength (TS) of the prepared PF/MWCNT hybrid nanocomposite (PFMNC), the ANN model with hyper-parameter optimization in a single-layer-perceptron architecture of 3-5-1 was used with 5 neurons in the hidden layer, and Box-Behnken Design (BBD) was utilized. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) micrographs demonstrate that KMnO4 modification has impacted the TS of the hybridized nanocomposite. Mechanical Test results show that these variables impacted the TS of the PFMNC as shown by analysis of variance (ANOVA) with R2 = 0.9986. The expected findings were nearly identical to the experimental results. The model predicted an optimal tensile strength of 46.1563 Mpa. To substantiate the reliability of the empirical experimental investigation, TS analysis was performed at predicted optimal settings. TS results showed an average strength of 45.4401 Mpa. About 98.45 % of the projected tensile strength is accounted for by the model. The present study has demonstrated the effectiveness of the ANN-BBD modeling technique in achieving the appropriate mechanical property values quickly, reducing production costs, and preserving resources.
Keywords: Natural fibers; Advanced composites; Application; Hybrid; Artificial intelligence; Plantain fiber

Bahareh Heidari, Ghazal Parsi, Mohammad Reza Nabid,
A novel polymeric nanocomposite based on TiO2 NPs containing β-cyclodextrin membrane for ultratrace naked-eye detection of Pb and Cd ions,
Materialia,
Volume 27,
2023,
101668,
ISSN 2589-1529,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtla.2022.101668.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2589152922003490)
Abstract: A unique, selective, and sensitive colorimetric nanosensor for the naked-eye detection and adsorption of Pb(II) and Cd(II) in aqueous media has been synthesized based on the organic–inorganic hybrid. Acrylamide (AM) and 2-acrylamido-2-methylpropanesulfonic acid (AMPS) as hydrophilic monomers, functionalized β-cyclodextrin (f-β-CD) as host-guest complex formation agent, and vinyl-dithizone (f-DTZ) as an efficient ligand were used. The β-CD with a hydrophobic interior and hydrophilic exterior can form a host-guest inclusion complex with a ligand that enhances nanosensors’ dispersion in aqueous media. The immediate color change of the sensor has been observed from gray to pink and blue for Pb(II) and Cd(II) with a wide linear range of [(1 ppb- 40 ppb)] and [(1 ppb- 60 ppb)], respectively. This study also considered the adsorption qualities of these heavy metals under various factors, including pH, time length, and initial ion concentration. The maximum adsorption capacity of Cd(II) via polymeric nanocomposite was 166 mg·g−1 at optimum condition. The experimental info has been investigated using the Langmuir and Freundlich isotherms and the pseudo-first-order and pseudo-second-order kinetic models.
Keywords: Polymeric nanocomposite; Colorimetric sensor; β-Cyclodextrin; Host-guest inclusion complex; Lead and cadmium ions

Md Moinuddin,
Semiflexible polymer nanocomposites: Role of stiffness on structure and macrophase separation,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
Volume 76, Part 1,
2023,
Pages 120-124,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2022.10.136.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214785322066524)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites are lighter in weight as compared to the traditionally bigger size filler-loaded composites. Moreover, polymer nanocomposites show enhancement in properties with small fractions of nanoparticles. In certain cases, a high fraction of nanoparticles is needed to incorporate the required properties significantly. In most of the theoretical and simulation studies of polymeric systems, the polymer chain is modeled as ideal freely-jointed chains, thereby neglecting the effects of chain stiffness. We study a system of semiflexible polymers containing 50% volume fraction of nanoparticles using Polymer Reference Interaction Site Model (PRISM) theory. In the absence of chemical anisotropy, these systems undergo a disordered fluid phase to a macrophase-separated state. The phase transition of these systems is favored by an increase in the persistence length of the polymer chain. At lower values of persistence lengths, a slight increase in the persistence length results in a sharp decrease in the critical packing fraction. However, for longer persistence lengths, an increase in the persistence length barely affects the critical packing fraction. Studies of the local structure of these systems show that an increase in persistence length increases the polymer–polymer contacts and polymer-nanoparticle contacts. On the contrary, nanoparticle-nanoparticle contact initially increases suddenly, then decreases slightly at longer persistence lengths.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Semiflexible polymer; PRISM theory; Phase behavior

Tarun Garg, Navneet Dabra, Jasbir S. Hundal,
Ferroelectric Ceramic-Polymer Nanocomposites for Applications in Dielectric Energy Storage Capacitors,
Editor(s): A.S.M.A. Haseeb,
Encyclopedia of Materials: Electronics,
Academic Press,
2023,
Pages 463-498,
ISBN 9780128197356,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-819728-8.00112-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128197288001121)
Abstract: Dielectric capacitors due to their ultrahigh power density capabilities are useful in pulsed power electronics. The operating voltage of dielectric capacitor depends on the intended application and, the concomitant enhancement in permittivity and electrical breakdown strength of dielectrics to improve their storage energy density properties would make them useful in wide range of applications. In this regard, the ferroelectric ceramic-polymer composites are the emerging class of dielectrics preserving enhanced dielectric properties of ceramic nanofillers and, high breakdown strength and flexibility of polymers. The polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF and barium calcium zirconium titanate BCZT composites are extensively explored due to excellent intrinsic ferroelectric properties of PVDF and BCZT leading to efficient energy storage in PVDF/BCZT composites. The main strategies to improve capacitive energy storage in polymer-nanocomposites include (i) tailoring shape and size of nanoceramics for enhanced electrical properties, (ii) surface-modifications on nanoceramics for better ceramic-polymer interfacial bonding, and (iii) novel synthesis techniques to feasible pathway for designing materials. This chapter includes the basics principle and importance energy storage capacitor and various parameters to evaluate capacitive energy storage in dielectrics. The development in dielectric materials and synthesis techniques dedicated to nanoparticles, polymers and polymer-nanocomposites appropriate to meet the requirements in energy storage application are discussed. Finally, the current approaches to achieve high-performance energy storage dielectrics are presented.
Keywords: Barium calcium zirconium titanate (BCZT); Ceramic-polymer nanocomposites; Dielectric materials; Electrical energy storage; Polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF)

Mabkhoot Alsaiari, Aneeqa Yasmeen, Amir Muhammad Afzal, Muhammad Waqas Iqbal, Jari S. Algethami, Farid A. Harraz,
Designing of poly(vinyl) alcohol and polyaniline conducting polymers doped WS2@rGO@AC hybrid nanocomposite electrode for high performance energy storage devices,
Synthetic Metals,
Volume 307,
2024,
117649,
ISSN 0379-6779,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.synthmet.2024.117649.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0379677924001115)
Abstract: Transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) are regarded as promising candidates for energy storage applications due to their remarkable electrochemical properties. In this work, tungsten disulfide (WS2) nanosheets are mixed with reduced graphene (rGO) to synthesize an electrode material with enhanced charge flow and active redox sites for efficient energy storage devices. To improve the electrochemical properties, the conducting polymers (PANI and PVA) are incorporated into the WS2@rGO composite. In three electrode system, the WS2@rGO@PVA nanocomposite showed a high value of Qs of 1050 C/g, which is much larger then single reference materials. The electrochemical efficiency is improved over individual components due to the extra influence of rGO and PVA, compared to the WS2@rGO@PANI. In hybrid device, a high value of Qs of 175 C/g is observed. During the stability measurement, the hybrid electrode exhibited capacity retention of 74.7% after 10,000 cycles. The amazing properties of hybrid material make it an appropriate and inspiring candidate for industrial use as a supercapattery electrode material.
Keywords: Polyaniline; Reduced graphene; Activated carbon; Supercapattery; Tungsten disulfide; Energy storage devices; Biomedical sensors

Hilal Reda, Anthony Chazirakis, Nikos Savva, Jean-François Ganghoffer, Vangelis Harmandaris,
Gradient of mechanical properties in polymer nanocomposites: From atomistic scale to the strain gradient effective continuum,
International Journal of Solids and Structures,
Volume 256,
2022,
111977,
ISSN 0020-7683,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijsolstr.2022.111977.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020768322004309)
Abstract: It is well known that glassy polymer nanocomposites (PNC) exhibit heterogeneous mechanical properties, with a distinct polymer/nanoparticle (NP) interfacial region. The interphase rigidity in particular can significantly influence the overall mechanical response of glassy PNCs. Continuum theories typically describe the mechanical behavior of the interphase such to depend only on the deformation and, thus, they discard the strong internal deformation gradients within the interphase, that are necessary for enriched continuum models of the PNC’s. Here we formulate a higher-gradient elasticity constitutive law for the polymer/NP interphase region through a systematic micro–meso–macro coupling, using data from atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. From a physical standpoint, we show that in order to accurately consider the polymer/NP interphase is necessary to describe it as a strain gradient material, whereas the bulk material may still behave as a Cauchy material, experiencing much lower strain gradient effects, compared to the polymer/NP interphase. Using atomistic MD simulations, the polymer/NP interphase thickness in PNCs is examined by probing the density profile distribution at equilibrium. By upscaling the molecular response within the interphase towards a continuum model, a strain gradient effective model for the interphase emerges, whereby the hyperstress tensor and the conjugate strain gradient, together with the stress and strain, are computed for each atom using the MD simulations. In a further upscaling step, a continuum-based homogenization scheme based on the unfolding method is elaborated for the identification of the strain-gradient elastic moduli of polymer composite materials, according to which the interphase obeys a second-gradient linear elastic constitutive law, with an inner reinforcement and an outer surrounding matrix obeying a first-gradient elasticity model.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Molecular dynamic simulations; Strain gradient interphase; Hyperstress and strain gradient; Unfolding method for homogenization; Strain gradient constitutive law

Vimala Dhayal, S.Z. Hashmi, N.S. Leel, A.M. Quraishi, Jasgurpreet Singh, Kuldeep Kumar, P.A. Alvi,
Study on structural and photoluminescence properties of CS/r-GO polymer nanocomposite,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
2023,
,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2023.02.197.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214785323007368)
Abstract: In this article, we reports the structural and photoluminescence properties of biodegradable CS/r-GO polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) prepared by simple solution mixing/casting technique. The details of sample preparation along with the characterization results are discussed and analyzed. The structural property of the prepared nanocomposite has been analyzed by XRD (X-ray diffraction) technique which confirms the crystalline size of the order of ∼37 nm with micro-strain ∼2.50 × 10-3. The optical properties (Photoluminescence and optical bandgap) have also been studied. The peak intensity in PL spectrum was found at ∼380 nm (near visible region) and optical bandgap has the order of ∼3.19 eV. The Raman spectra of the samples have also been studied which show the characteristic peaks of pure CS and r-GO nanofiller at 1548 /cm and 1581 /cm, respectively.
Keywords: Polymers; Chitosan; Nanocomposites; Structural property

Farhad Esmailzadeh, Fereshte Hassanzadeh-Afruzi, Haniyeh Dogari, Ali Maleki,
Synthesis of tetrahydropyrazolopyridines derivatives via novel functionalized graphene oxide reinforced aminated dextrin (FGO@dextrin) polymer nanocomposite,
Materials Science and Engineering: B,
Volume 292,
2023,
116420,
ISSN 0921-5107,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mseb.2023.116420.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921510723001629)
Abstract: In this research study, we introduce an eco-friendly polymer nanocomposite as a novel multifunctional catalytic system. It is primarily comprised of dextrin as matrix and graphene oxide (GO) as reinforcement. Multistep fabrication includes amine-modification of dextrin by using an aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES) reagent, GO preparation via Hummer’s method, and then its functionalization with epichlorohydrin (ECH) as a crosslinking agent. Ultimately, covalent connection between ECH-functionalized GO and aminated dextrin (dextrin-NH2) performed via a substitution reaction under alkaline condition. The FGO@dextrin polymer nanocomposite was characterized by different techniques. According to the results, the fabricated catalyst was thermally stable with an approximately 67% char yield at 800 °C. It was then used as a catalyst for synthesis of tetrahydropyrazolopyridine derivatives using ethyl acetoacetate, hydrazine hydrate, and different benzaldehydes in a one-pot tandem reaction. This versatile biocompatible catalyst has proved to be effective in the synthesis of pyrazolopyridines with high yields (90–98%) at room temperature. This can be attributed to several merits such as numerous acidic and basic sites, high porous structure, and high surface area. This heterogeneous catalyst retrieved from the reaction mixture, and reused for seven consecutive cycles without losing significantly of its activity.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Functionalized graphene oxide; Dextrin; Multicomponent reaction; Pyrazolopyridine

Taha Sheikh, Kamran Behdinan,
Parametric analysis of additively manufactured polymer nanocomposites: A experimental and multiscale study,
Journal of Manufacturing Processes,
Volume 117,
2024,
Pages 193-204,
ISSN 1526-6125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmapro.2024.03.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1526612524002214)
Abstract: Fused Filament Fabrication (FFF) or Fused Deposition Modeling (FDM) is a widely utilized additive manufacturing technology in a variety of sectors. However, voids, poor bonding between layers, and FDM parameters commonly affect the FDM-printed objects, altering their strength. Carbon nanotube (CNT) composites for FDM printing have been researched by researchers to improve their characteristics. This paper proposes an efficient three-scale computational model for predicting mechanical properties as well as a unique water-quenching process for preparing CNT-infused filaments. The influence of FDM process parameters on mechanical properties is revealed by extensive parametric analysis. When compared to pure ABS, the CNT-infused composite demonstrated better bonding and modulus. The experimental study showed that an increase in the layer height deteriorates the elastic modulus by 21.03 % and 27.92 %, for ABS and ABS-CNT, respectively. The infill density increases the modulus by 49.3 % and 69.6 % for pure ABS, from 100 % to 75 % and 50 %, respectively. For parts printed in 0–00 and 0–900 orientations, a 2.11 % and a 1.7 % decrease were found for pure ABS and nanocomposite, respectively. The computational results were in good agreement with the experimental findings, with the difference varying from 10.15 % to 5.5 % for 0.1 mm and 0.2 mm layer heights. For other parameters like the raster orientation, the difference for 0–00 and 0–900 was 5.3 % and 6.9 %, respectively. The computational results agree with the experimental results, making it a useful tool for optimizing FDM printing and exploiting CNTs to improve part performance.
Keywords: Fused deposition modeling parameters; Carbon nanotubes (CNTs); Polymer nanocomposites

Aphisit Saenjaiban, Sarinthip Thanakkasaranee, Kittisak Jantanasakulwong, Winita Punyodom, Youn Suk Lee, Pisith Singjai, Alissara Reungsang, Nuttapol Tanadchangsaeng, Patnarin Worajittiphon, Rangsan Panyathip, Pornchai Rachtanapun,
Influence of biodegradable polymer films on conformation of polydiacetylene–silver nanocomposites as colorimetric time–temperature indicators,
Sensors and Actuators A: Physical,
Volume 376,
2024,
115658,
ISSN 0924-4247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sna.2024.115658.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924424724006526)
Abstract: Time–temperature indicators (TTIs) are used to monitor the quality of packaged products by providing a visual indication of product deterioration due to time and temperature during transportation, storage, and distribution. This study aimed to investigate the effect of biodegradable polymer films on the limits of the color change mechanism in polydiacetylene. TTIs were prepared using biodegradable polymer films based on carboxymethyl cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol (PVOH), chitosan, and carboxymethyl chitosan (CMCh) with thermochromic properties provided by silver nanoparticles–polydiacetylene (10 % w/w AgNP–PDA). Vesicle and core–shell structures of AgNP–PDA appeared in the chitosan- and PVOH-based films owing to the effects of functional groups in the base polymer. Total color difference measurements indicated that the AgNP–PDA-containing films exhibited color changes in response to storage at 35 ℃ for a total of 14 days. Specifically, the AgNP–PDA in the chitosan- and PVOH-based films produced noticeable color changes from blue to reddish-purple or reddish-brown, respectively, which was influenced by the core–shell structure of AgNP–PDA embedded in the base polymer. The developed films are very promising for applications as TTI devices for tracking fresh products, supported by the compatibility of activation energy (Ea) from 29 to 79 kJ/mol.
Keywords: Intelligent packaging; Time–temperature sensor; Silver nanocomposite

Jae Yun Kim, Se Hyeon Ahn, Dong Gyun Kim, Zheng Min Huang, Young Seok Song,
Injection-molded PEO/MXene nanocomposite for polymer-based solid-state electrolyte,
Composites Communications,
2024,
102005,
ISSN 2452-2139,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coco.2024.102005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2452213924001967)
Abstract: ABSTRACT
The solid-state electrolyte constitutes a major component in an all-solid-state lithium-ion battery. It plays a critical role in determining the lifetime and performance of the battery. Among the materials used in polymer-based solid-state electrolytes, poly (ethylene oxide) (PEO) is widely studied due to its high ionic conductivity and excellent solubility in lithium salts. However, the high crystallinity of PEO still remains a challenge to overcome, leading to poor ionic conductivity compared to other solid-state electrolytes. Herein, we fabricated MXene-embedded PEO nanocomposites for solid-state electrolytes using the injection molding process. MXenes were synthesized by using HF and MILD etching methods. The particle characteristics were evaluated through morphological, elemental, and structural analyses. In addition, the thermal, mechanical, and rheological properties of the solid electrolyte were examined. The solid-state electrolyte was injection-molded, and the flow and deformation of the molten polymer were modeled numerically. Also, the performance of the lithium-ion battery was simulated. The addition of MXene resulted in an approximately 80 times improvement of ionic conductivity, i.e., 1.0 S/cm.
Keywords: nanocomposite; poly(ethylene oxide); MXene; solid electrolytes

R. Gopika, K. Arun, M.T. Ramesan,
In-situ polymerization of polythiophene/silicon carbide nanocomposites for gas sensing and optoelectronic devices,
Journal of Materials Research and Technology,
Volume 30,
2024,
Pages 1288-1300,
ISSN 2238-7854,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmrt.2024.03.172.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2238785424007026)
Abstract: Silicon carbide (SiC)-reinforced polythiophene (PTh) nanocomposites were synthesized by oxidative in-situ polymerization. The successful inclusion of SiC nanoparticles into the PTh was confirmed by the characteristic peak of Si–C bond around 865 cm−1 in the Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns demonstrate that the amorphous nature of PTh reduces with the addition of SiC. The intensity of UV–Vis absorbance increased proportionally with filler loading, indicating improved optical properties for PThSiC7 (polythiophene/silicon carbide 7 wt%) nanocomposite compared to pristine PTh. Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) images illustrate the changes in surface morphology of PTh with the addition of SiC and uniform dispersion was observed in PThSiC7. The formation of spherical-shaped moieties was confirmed using transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The shifts in degradation and glass transition temperatures towards higher values were attributed to the enhanced thermal properties of the nanocomposites. Temperature-dependent studies on the electrical and dielectric properties of the samples underscored the excellent conductivity exhibited by PThSiC7 (7 × 10−3 S/cm) with a low activation energy of 0.058 eV. In response to the growing demand for gas sensors, samples were tested to sense ammonia gas, demonstrating that PThSiC nanocomposites were more sensitive than PTh. The controllable optical properties, thermal stability, electrical characteristics, and gas sensing performance of the PThSiC nanocomposites suggest their potential as a promising material for the development of advanced energy storage systems, sensors, and optoelectronic devices.
Keywords: Polythiophene; SiC nanoparticles; Crystallinity; Thermal properties; Dielectric constant; Conductivity

Zou He, Yang Yang, Jie Qi, Xingyu Lin, Na Wang, Li Wang, Huimin Dai, Hongsheng Lu,
Hyperbranched polymer nanocomposite as a potential shale stabilizer in water-based drilling fluids for improving wellbore stability,
Journal of Molecular Liquids,
Volume 395,
2024,
123903,
ISSN 0167-7322,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molliq.2023.123903.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167732223027101)
Abstract: Shale hydration has been a frequent and challenging technical problem causing wellbore instability in oil and gas drilling processes. The aim of this study is to design a novel hyperbranched polymer nanocomposite (HBPN) based on a synergistic strategy of physical plugging and chemical inhibition to improve wellbore stability. The inhibitive property of HBPN was comprehensively evaluated through the sodium montmorillonite (Na-MMT) plates immersion test, capillary suction time (CST) test, and shale hot-rolling recovery test. Results implied that HBPN presented better inhibition performance. The shale hydration rate was reduced to 0.03 in the presence of HBPN. Particularly, the shale hot-rolling recovery rate reached 80.54 % at 150 °C and presented long-term shale inhibition durability. It demonstrated excellent plugging performance in the artificial low permeability filter cakes plugging test, reaching a plugging efficiency of 42.45 % with the addition of 2.0 w/v% HBPN. The potential mechanism of action of HBPN was proposed through particle size distribution (PSD) measurement, Zeta (ζ) potential measurement, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) analysis, X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis, and scanning electron microscope (SEM) analysis. The coordination of electrostatic interaction and hydrogen bonding impelled a decrease in the ζ potential and interlayer spacing of Na-MMT. Meanwhile, HBPN could embed into formation pores and fractures to establish a tight plugging zone. This approach outlined herein might provide an avenue to strengthen wellbore stability for the drilling industry.
Keywords: Hyperbranched polymer nanocomposite; Water-based drilling fluids; Wellbore stability; Chemical inhibition; Physical plugging

Seira Morimune-Moriya, Masaru Kotera, Takashi Nishino,
Alignment control of clay and its effect on properties of polymer nanocomposites,
Polymer,
Volume 256,
2022,
125202,
ISSN 0032-3861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2022.125202.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0032386122006905)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites are well known to show high performances by the addition of a small amount of nanofiller. However, the brittleness has often been reported as a general issue of the nanocomposites. In this study, we revealed the excellent toughening effect of poly (vinyl alcohol) (PVA)/montmorillonite (MMT) nanocomposites by controlling the alignment of MMT by drawing. The PVA/MMT nanocomposites with 5 wt% MMT loading was prepared and then drawn by uniaxial drawing, roll drawing and simultaneous-biaxial drawing. The drawn nanocomposites, where MMT was highly aligned parallel to the film surface, showed excellent enhancement in the mechanical properties and barrier properties. It is noteworthy that not only the Young's modulus and the tensile strength, but also the elongation at break and the toughness remarkably increased for the drawn nanocomposites. For example, the simultaneously-biaxially-drawn nanocomposite showed the toughness of 17 times higher than that of the as-cast nanocomposite. Furthermore, the swelling ratio was comparable to that of surface fluorinated PVA film.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Orientation; Stress transfer

Selim Park, Jingyu Kim, Taek Woo Han, Dal Yeon Hwang, Hee Chul Lee, Wook-Bae Kim,
Mechanical reinforcement of UV-curable polymer nanocomposite for nanopatterned mold,
Microelectronic Engineering,
Volume 259,
2022,
111791,
ISSN 0167-9317,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mee.2022.111791.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167931722000855)
Abstract: This study proposed a method for manufacturing nanopatterned molds with high strength and durability using UV-curable polymer nanocomposites. Zirconia (ZrO2) nanoparticles (NPs) were blended with Ormostamp, a commercial UV-curable resin, using the solution blending method. The elastic modulus and hardness of the cured nanocomposite layer were investigated through a nanoindentation test for different volume ratios of NPs in the Ormostamp composite from 0 to 53.8%. The modulus and hardness of pure resin were 0.075 ± 0.002 GPa and 9.7 ± 0.164 MPa, respectively, and they increased to 11.9 GPa and 146.9 MPa at an NP concentration of 58.3%. Nanocomposite molds were fabricated by nanoimprinting with a PDMS stamp, which is replicated from the nanodimple array master. The fabricated nanocomposite mold can efficiently replicate other UV-curable resins. Hot embossing was then performed for a PMMA film using the fabricated molds. Unlike a pure UV-curable resin, which showed damage and fracture of the dimple structure after the first replication, the nanocomposites maintained the nanodimple shape even up to 30 replications. Uniform nanopatterns can be formed on even cylindrical surfaces by using a soft replica stamp. Polymer nanocomposites with a high NP concentration exhibited significantly improved mechanical reinforcement when compared to conventional pure polymers for mold making. Therefore, they are expected to be extremely useful for manufacturing nanopatterned molds using UV resin.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Nanoimprinting; Mechanical reinforcement; Mold durability; Ormostamp; Nanoparticles

P.M.Z. Hasan, Shivratan Saini, A.A. Melaibari, N.S. Leel,  Aakansha, Reem Darwesh, A.M. Quraishi, Jasgurpreet Singh, A.E. Kuznetsov, S.Z. Hashmi, Saurabh Dalela, P.A. Alvi,
Tunable optical and structural characteristics with improved electrical properties of (PVA-GO-CuO) eco-friendly-polymer nanocomposites and their DFT study,
Diamond and Related Materials,
Volume 140, Part A,
2023,
110425,
ISSN 0925-9635,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diamond.2023.110425.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925963523007501)
Abstract: The research in this study have been motivated by the unique combination of GO (graphene oxide) and CuO nano-fillers with optimized composition in the poly vinyl alcohol (PVA) polymer. The (PVA-CuO-GO) polymer nanocomposites were created using a melt blending process with varying weight percentages of GO and CuO (ranging from 1 to 6 wt%) nanofillers. The composite was fashioned into a dumble-like structure. XRD (x-ray diffractometer), UV–Vis-NIR spectrophotometer, FESEM (field emission scanning electron microscope) and impedance analyzer were utilized to get the effect of nanofillers on the structural parameters, optical characteristics, surface morphology, and electrical properties of the composites. The influence of wt% of nano-fillers on crystalline size and micro-strain has been examined using XRD data. Tauc graphs were studied using UV–Vis-NIR spectrophotometer data for determining the direct and indirect optical bandgaps, and they show that increasing the weight percentage of nano-fillers causes the optical band gap (direct and indirect) to rise. The direct and indirect bandgap rose from 2.98 to 3.19 eV and 2.23 to 2.80, respectively, as the concentration of nano-fillers increased from 1 to 6 wt%. With increasing nanofillers amount, refractive index and Urbach energy were found to reduce; while peak extinction coefficient was found to increase. FESEM along with the EDAX analysis was also performed to investigate the smoothness of the composites' surfaces. Improvement in capacitance, dielectric constant and ac conductivity was also observed with increase in amount of nanofillers. DFT (Density functional theory) study has also been performed for Natural Bond Orbitals (NBO) analysis of charge and spin distribution, as well as HOMO, LUMO and molecular electrostatic potential (MEP). Based on the findings of the characterization results, the synthesized polymer nanocomposites can be employed in a variety of optoelectronics applications.
Keywords: PVA; CuO; Graphene oxide; Nanocomposites; Structural property; Optical property

Shivani Shisodia, Abdelhak Hadj Sahraoui, Benoit Duponchel, Dharmendra Pratap Singh, Michael Depriester,
Optimization of thermoelectric parameters for quantum dot-assisted polymer nanocomposite,
Energy Advances,
Volume 3, Issue 5,
2024,
Pages 1037-1046,
ISSN 2753-1457,
https://doi.org/10.1039/d4ya00012a.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2753145724000727)
Abstract: The interdependency among thermal conductivity, electrical conductivity, and the Seebeck coefficient acts as a challenge to enhancing thermoelectric (TE) performance. However, thanks to nanotechnology, it is possible to break this interdependency by employing the phonon glass electron crystal (PGEC) approach. The present work aims to decrease the lattice thermal conductivity by inducing nanoflower-like structures in a conducting polymer matrix. Herein, we report the thermoelectric properties of graphene oxide and titanium dioxide (GO–TiO2) quantum dots (QDs) in poly(3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene):polystyrene sulfonate (PEDOT:PSS). The effect of QDs on the thermoelectric performance of the PEDOT:PSS polymeric matrix has been investigated experimentally and then analyzed using several theoretical models. The obtained nanocomposite showed an enhancement in Seebeck coefficient and electrical conductivity while decreasing lattice thermal conductivity. Furthermore, the filler successfully broke the interdependent relationship of thermoelectric parameters due to the existence of energy-filtering phenomena and interfacial thermal resistance.

Chang Liu, Zhihui Chen, Huan Tang, Yaxian Zhu, Jiachao Chen, Yujie Du, Haoyuan Xu, Zhiheng Li, Wenlan Yang,
Simultaneous removal of fluoride and nitrate from photovoltaic wastewater utilizing a bifunctional polymer-based nanocomposite encapsulating Ce-Fe bimetal oxyhydroxides,
Chemical Engineering Journal,
Volume 496,
2024,
153990,
ISSN 1385-8947,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.153990.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1385894724054792)
Abstract: The widespread use of HF and HNO3 in photovoltaic (PV) cell manufacturing results in the generation of substantial wastewater containing fluoride and nitrate, posing a serious threat to ecological safety and human health. In this study, a novel bifunctional nanocomposite adsorbent CFBOs@TPM, exhibiting a specific affinity for both fluoride and nitrate, was developed for their concurrent removal from PV wastewater. A triethylamine functionalized polystyrene microsphere (TPM) of nanoporous and crosslinked structure was synthesized as the host of CFBOs@TPM, with Ce-Fe bimetal oxyhydroxides (CFBOs) nanoparticles of sufficient hydroxyl groups impregnated inside the pores of TPM as the active species. Comparative studies with other analogous adsorbents highlighted the superior selectivity and efficacy of CFBOs@TPM for fluoride and nitrate retention, with minimal interference from coexisting anions. Fixed-bed adsorption tests on pre-treated PV wastewater demonstrated that CFBOs@TPM could effectively reduce fluoride from 2.93 to < 1.5 mg F/L over ∼250 bed volume (BV), and nitrate from 34.8 to < 10 mg N/L over ∼220 BV. Remarkably, the spent CFBOs@TPM could be efficiently regenerated using a NaOH-NaCl mixed reagent, allowing for cyclic utilization with sustained efficiency. Such exceptional performance of CFBOs@TPM arises from its dual-function structure, that is, the functionalized triethylamine groups on TPM enhance preferential nitrate adsorption via selective electrostatic attraction, while the encapsulated CFBOs nanoparticles within TPM facilitate specific fluoride uptake through hydroxyl ligand exchange and inner-sphere complexation. This study represents a significant advancement in the development of multifunctional adsorbents for simultaneous removal of coexisting contaminants from wastewater, providing valuable insights for future environmental remediation strategies.
Keywords: Bifunctional nanocomposite; Functionalized triethylamine; Ce-Fe bimetal oxyhydroxides; Fluoride and nitrate; Simultaneous removal

Hany M. Abd El-Lateef, Mai.M. Khalaf, Taymour A. Hamdalla, Manal F. Abou Taleb, Mohamed Gouda,
New polymeric nanocomposite thin films for transparent optoelectronics: Impact of In(acac)3 on the structural, optical and photoelectrical characteristics of PVA films,
Surfaces and Interfaces,
Volume 50,
2024,
104496,
ISSN 2468-0230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2024.104496.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468023024006539)
Abstract: Concerning the rapid progress in elastic and transparent optoelectronics, the need for cost-effective materials for transparent optoelectronic devices has become a mainstream research trend. Therefore, this report aimed to explore the modifications of the PVA characteristics due to In(acac)3 doping. New PVA:In(acac)3 nanocomposite thin films were fabricated using a cost-effective and facile spin-coating technique with varying the In(acac)3 loading concentration. The structural and molecular feature variations of PVA have been tracked using XRD and FTIR techniques, respectively. Furthermore, by varying In(acac)3′s concentration, the fabricated films' linear/nonlinear optical properties have been investigated symmetrically using the UV–visible-NIR spectrophotometric technique. The measured transmittance spectra of the prepared films showed the tunability of the energetic position of the fundamental edge while conserving the high transparency. The energy gap and Urbach energy of the prepared thin films have been calculated as a function of doping concentration. The nonlinear refractive index and optical susceptibilities were estimated for all the fabricated films. On the other hand, the photodetection response of the fabricated Schottky barrier devices was tested. The fabricated devices showed pronounced UV response, where the photocurrent density was significantly enhanced under UV illumination up to 0.1 mA/cm2 for the 20 wt.% In(acac)3 doped films. The photodetection performance of the manufactured nanocomposite thin films under repeatable On/Off switching cycles was tested. The optimum doping concertation of In(acac)3 was determined in terms of the analyzed optical and photodetection characteristics to be 20 wt.%. The obtained results support the careful reconsideration of the possibility of exploiting some cheap polymers as important components in advanced optoelectronic applications.
Keywords: Transparent nanocomposite; Poly(vinyl) alcohol; Molecular structure; Linear/nonlinear optical parameters; Transparent photodetector

Shivratan Saini, S.Z. Hashmi, A.M. Quraishi, Kuldeep Kumar, Jasgurpreet Singh, P.A. Alvi,
PVA/PVDF/ZnO polymer nanocomposites: An insight of structural and optical properties,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
2023,
,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2023.02.266.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214785323008106)
Abstract: This article reports on structural and optical properties of novel PVA/PVDF/ZnO polymer nanocomposites prepared by melt blending technique which produces a good quality nanocomposites rather than by simple solution mixing technique. The SEM images of synthesized ZnO nano-filler and prepared polymer nanocomposites have also been depicted. The structural property has been studied by XRD (X-ray diffraction) technique; while the optical properties have been determined by spectrofluorometer. Using XRD data, W-H plot has been studied to determine the crystalline size and strain which was numerically found as ∼ 9.6 nm and 0.0015, respectively. In the optical property, the PL spectra of the prepared nanocomposite was studied and a broaden peak of the PVA-PVDF polymer was found at 430 nm. No shifting in wavelength was observed on mixing of ZnO nanofiller, but the intensity was reduced significantly.
Keywords: PVA; PVDF; ZnO; Nanocomposites; Polymers

Naresh Kumar, R.J. Sengwa,
Optical characterization of PVDF/PMMA/OMMT hybrid polymer nanocomposite films for futuristic optoelectronic devices,
Optik,
Volume 287,
2023,
171163,
ISSN 0030-4026,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2023.171163.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402623006605)
Abstract: Hybrid polymer nanocomposite (HPNC) films based on poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF)/poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) blend (80/20 wt/wt%) host matrix and organo-modified montmorillonite (OMMT) nanoclay filler (concentrations 0.0, 2.5, 5.0, and 10 wt%) are prepared by the homogenized solution casting method. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscopic (SEM) studies revealed the formation of intercalated and exfoliated OMMT structures in the prepared composites. The detailed optical characterization of these HPNC films is carried out with measurements of absorbance spectra by employing a dual beam ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis) spectrophotometer of wavelength range 200–800 nm. The varying amounts of dispersed OMMT into the PVDF/PMMA blend matrix leads to a gradual decrease in the direct energy band gap of the host matrix from 5.12 eV to 4.54 eV and also shows semiconductive characteristics of 3.83 eV wide band gap at higher nanofiller concentrations. The band gap values of these HPNC films are compared and discussed with other composites of different polymer blend matrices dispersed with a variety of nanofillers. The increase of OMMT concentrations enhanced the range of refractive index (1.85–2.65), extinction coefficient (1.14–10.69 × 10–4), optical range dielectric permittivity (3.44–7.07), and optical conductivity (1.32–17.14 × 1011 s−1) of these HPNC films, at a fixed wavelength of 500 nm, which further changes largely with the alteration in wavelength of incident photons. The nanofiller concentration controllable optical parameters of these PVDF/PMMA/OMMT based HPNCs reveal that they could be promising performance and multipurpose optical materials in the advances of futuristic flexible-type optoelectronic devices.
Keywords: Hybrid polymer nanocomposites; PVDF/PMMA blend; OMMT nanoclay; Energy band gap; Refractive index; Optical conductivity

Hairui Bai, Guanglong Ge, Fei Yan, Kun Zhu, Jin Qian, Cheng Shi, Yanxia Li, Haijiao Xie, Bo Shen, Jiwei Zhai,
Highly enhanced energy storage performance of trilayered gradient polymer-based nanocomposite via 2D SNO@Ag nanosheets,
Chemical Engineering Journal,
Volume 463,
2023,
142428,
ISSN 1385-8947,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.142428.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1385894723011592)
Abstract: Simultaneous enhancement in dielectric constant and electric breakdown strength is the desired way for polymer-based dielectric materials to achieve a high discharge energy density. Herein, an artificial gradient trilayered polymer nanocomposite with remarkable energy storage performance is proposed. Two-dimensional Sr2Nb2O7 nanosheets (SNO NSs) functionalized with polydopamine and Ag-quantum-dots (D-SNO@Ag NSs) are introduced into a poly(vinylidene fluoride)/polymethyl methacrylate (PVDF/PMMA) blend polymer matrix (BPM). Attributed to the incorporation of Ag-quantum-dots (Ag QDs) on the surface of SNO NSs, the local capacitance around SNO NSs is improved and the electron migration near the Ag QDs is inhibited. As a result, a large Weibull breakdown strength (585.13 MV m−1) and an enhanced dielectric constant (13.98) was obtained to achieve a high difference between electric displacement and remnant electric displacement (12.98 μC cm−2 at 580 MV m−1) from the gradient trilayered nanocomposite, which contributes a remarkable discharge energy density of 31.0 J cm−3 with a charge–discharge efficiency of 66%.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Energy storage performance; Ag-quantum-dots; Gradient trilayered architecture

Xin Wu, Peiyuan Kang, Yinghan Zhang, Haocheng Guo, Shuoying Yang, Qi Zheng, Lianjun Wang, Wan Jiang,
Highly electrically conductive MOF/conducting polymer nanocomposites toward tunable electromagnetic wave absorption,
Journal of Materials Science & Technology,
Volume 205,
2025,
Pages 258-269,
ISSN 1005-0302,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmst.2024.03.066.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1005030224004742)
Abstract: Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have attracted significant interest as self-templates and precursors for the synthesis of carbon-based composites aimed at electromagnetic wave (EMW) absorption. However, the utilization of high-temperature treatments has introduced uncertainties regarding the compositions and microstructures of resulting derivatives. Additionally, complete carbonization has led to diminished yields of the produced carbon composites, significantly limiting their practical applications. Consequently, the exploration of pristine MOF-based EMW absorbers presents an intriguing yet challenging endeavor, primarily due to inherently low electrical conductivity. In this study, we showcase the utilization of structurally robust Zr-MOFs as scaffolds to build highly conductive Zr-MOF/PPy composites via an inner-outer dual-modification approach, which involves the production of conducting polypyrrole (PPy) both within the confined nanoporous channels and the external surface of Zr-MOFs via post-synthetic modification. The interconnection of confined PPy and surface-lined PPy together leads to a consecutive and extensive conducting network to the maximum extent. This therefore entails outstanding conductivity up to ∼14.3 S cm−1 in Zr-MOF/PPy composites, which is approximately 1–2 orders of magnitude higher than that for conductive MOF nanocomposites constructed from either inner or outer modification. Benefiting from the strong and tunable conduction loss, as well as the induced dielectric polarization originated from the porous structures and MOF-polymer interfaces, Zr-MOF/PPy exhibits excellent microwave attenuation capabilities and a tunable absorption frequency range. Specifically, with only 15 wt.% loading, the minimum reflection loss (RLmin) can reach up to –67.4 dB, accompanied by an effective absorption bandwidth (EAB) extending to 6.74 GHz. Furthermore, the microwave absorption characteristics can be tailored from the C-band to the Ku-band by adjusting the loading of PPy. This work provides valuable insights into the fabrication of conductive MOF composites by presenting a straightforward pathway to enhance and regulate electrical conduction in MOF-based nanocomposites, thus paving a way to facilely fabricate pristine MOF-based microwave absorbers.
Keywords: Conductive mof nanocomposites; Electromagnetic wave absorption; MOF/conducting polymer; Electrical conductivity; Zr-MOF/PPy

Hayder Abbas Sallal, Mohammed Hamid Mahboba, Mohammed S. Radhi, Asad Hanif, Zainab S. Al-Khafaji, Shamsad Ahmad, Zaher Mundher Yaseen,
Effect of adding (ZrO2-ZnO) nanopowder on the polymer blend (lamination and methyl vinyl silicone) in a hybrid nanocomposite material,
Journal of King Saud University - Science,
Volume 36, Issue 2,
2024,
103061,
ISSN 1018-3647,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jksus.2023.103061.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1018364723005232)
Abstract: A polymeric blend combines two or more polymers to form a new material with different physical properties. In this work, a base material consisting of a polymeric mixture was manufactured to improve its properties and then strengthened with nanoparticles (ZrO2-ZnO) to develop a hybrid nanocomposite material, which has better properties than its constituent materials. Reinforcement material, i.e., (ZrO2-ZnO) nanoparticles, were prepared using relaxation method. A polymeric resin mixture (lamination and methyl vinyl silicone) was prepared by adding methyl vinyl silicone to the lamination resin in different ratios (4 %, 8 %, 12 %, and 16 %). The mixture properties were studied through tensile, bending, shock, and hardness tests, and the optimal results were achieved for the 12 % ratio. The resulting composite nanoparticles and their properties were studied using EDX, X-Ray, SEM, and PSA techniques. Finally, the nano-hybrid composite material was manufactured by choosing the optimal blend (i.e., 12 %). It had the highest polymeric base material properties, and nanoparticles were added at different dosages (3 %, 6 %, 9 %, and 12 %). The resulting hybrid composite material properties were studied through different tests (tensile, flexural, impact, and hardness). The results showed that the binary composite nanoparticles improved the properties of the mixture for both sizes (30 nm and 89 nm) at all mixing ratios, compared to the control specimens (i.e., without any addition). The optimal results were obtained when 30 nm particles were added and for all tests compared to samples reinforced with 89 nm particles. The optimal ratio of (ZrO2-ZnO) was 9 % wt 30 nm size, representing the best sample in terms of the resulting properties. It is recommended to use the sample with the 9 % addition of (ZrO2 - ZnO) wt with a granular size of (30 nm) in essential applications, including prosthetics (foot).
Keywords: Composite Nanopowders; Sol–gel; Relaxation; Polymeric blend; Medical applications

Yi-Fang Mi, Wen Xia, Bing-Xin Gu, Rong Ma, Yan-Li Ji,
Salt-responsive polyamide thin-film nanocomposite membrane based on zwitterionic polymeric nanoparticles for high-efficient dye desalination,
Journal of Membrane Science,
Volume 709,
2024,
123094,
ISSN 0376-7388,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.memsci.2024.123094.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0376738824006884)
Abstract: To simultaneously improve the water permeability, selectivity, and antifouling properties of polyamide nanofiltration (NF) membranes in textile wastewater treatment, we fabricated a salt-responsive thin-film nanocomposite (TFN) membrane with the incorporation of zwitterionic polymeric nanoparticles (ZNPs) into polyamide selective layer. Herein, the ZNPs were synthesized via an inverse miniemulsion polymerization with zwitterionic monomer, amino monomer, and cross-linker reagent. The salt-responsive property of ZNPs rendered their resultant membranes TFN-ZNPs with adjustable microstructure and separation performance via varying the sodium chloride (NaCl) concentration in water. The water permeance of TFN-ZNPs was enhanced to be 1.7 times that of its pure water permeance with the 10 g L−1 NaCl solution, and the salt-responsive behavior was reversible. Moreover, this salt-responsive property endowed the membrane with outstanding separation performance for the salt/dye or dye/dye mixtures. The selectivity of TFN-ZNPs to NaCl/congo red and methyl orange/neutral blue was enhanced to ∼104 and ∼127, respectively. The TFN-ZNPs with salt-responsive property also exhibited an improved antifouling performance, i.e., the flux recovery ratio was enhanced from 85.6 % to 96.5 % by washing with NaCl solution instead of deionized water. Thus, this work provided a paradigm shift in the fabrication of salt-responsive TFN membranes for the highly efficient separation of organic molecules and inorganic salts and wastewater treatment.
Keywords: Salt-responsive; Thin-film nanocomposite membrane; Zwitterionic polymeric nanoparticle; Salt/dye selectivity; Antifouling

Lokesh Singh Panwar, Varij Panwar, Mohd Umer Ansari, Gopinathan Anoop, Sukho Park,
Electrical, mechanical, and energy harvesting of a pyroelectric polymer nanocomposite,
Current Applied Physics,
Volume 52,
2023,
Pages 37-44,
ISSN 1567-1739,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cap.2023.05.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567173923001281)
Abstract: Flexible pyroelectric devices can convert waste heat from the human body, sun, industry, geothermal, and automobiles into renewable electricity. In this paper, carbon nanofiber (CNF) and poly(2-acrylamide-2-methyl-1-propane-sulfonic acid) and PAMPS attached poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) pyroelectric polymer nanocomposite (PyPNC) were investigated for electrical, mechanical, and pyroelectric performance with temperature variations. The ac conductivity and open circuit voltage of PyPNC increased with temperature. The PyPNC showed the enhanced AC conductivity (σac) of 89 S/cm and open circuit output voltage of 4.8 V at 120 °C due to the alignment of CNF with PAMPS beads that enhanced the volume fraction of the β-phase in PyPNC at 120 °C than that of the random orientation of CNF with PAMPS beads of PyPNC at 20 °C, 50 °C, and 150 °C.
Keywords: PVDF; PAMPS; Polymer nanocomposite; Pyroelectricity

Yurui Chen, Wei Wu, Xuzhi Cao, Bengang Li,
Induction of polymer-grafted cellulose nanocrystals in hydrogel nanocomposites to increase anti-swelling, mechanical properties and conductive self-recovery for underwater strain sensing,
International Journal of Biological Macromolecules,
Volume 274, Part 2,
2024,
133410,
ISSN 0141-8130,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.133410.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141813024042156)
Abstract: Anti-swelling conductive hydrogels with simultaneous high tensile strength (>1 MPa) and fast self-recovery are promising candidates for underwater strain sensing, but their preparation remains challenging. Herein, novel anti-swelling conductive nanocomposite hydrogels were fabricated based on poly(acrylamide-co-acrylic acid) (P(AM-co-AA)), polymer-grafted cellulose nanocrystals (CNCs) and Fe3+ ions through a strategy combining nano-reinforcing and multiple physical crosslinking. Due to the presence of interfacial H-bonds, polymer-grafted cellulose nanocrystals played important role in endowing hydrogels with anti-swelling capacity and enhanced mechanical performance. The obtained nanocomposite hydrogels exhibited relatively low swelling ratio (2.9–3.3 g/g), high tensile strength (>1.5 MPa), fast self-recovery (86 % recovery of hysteresis within 5 min) and conductivities of 0.0534–0.0593 S/m. The combination of excellent tensile properties and conductivity endowed the hydrogel-based strain sensors with good sensitivity (GF ≈ 0.8) and reliable cycling repeatability in 0–100 % strain range. Notably, the nanocomposite hydrogels can maintain their mechanical and sensing performance after soaking in water for 14 days, making them applicable for human motion detection both in air and underwater. Hence, this work provided a facile method to construct highly robust and anti-swelling CNC-reinforced conductive hydrogels, which have potential applications in underwater strain sensing and beyond.
Keywords: Cellulose nanocrystals; Conductive hydrogel; Anti-swelling; High strength; Strain sensor

Bruna F. Alves, Rita C.P. Nunes, Luiz C. Bertolino, Elizabete F. Lucas,
Polymer nanocomposites to modify crude oil waxy crystallization: Influence of content and type of clay (mineral),
Applied Clay Science,
Volume 247,
2024,
107215,
ISSN 0169-1317,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clay.2023.107215.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169131723004027)
Abstract: Some operational problems in the oil industry are due to the precipitation of paraffins. To prevent them, a possible strategy is the use of polymeric additives. Polymeric nanocomposites have proved to be a promising alternative in waxy model systems. The article reports the evaluation of nanocomposites of poly(ethylene-co-vinyl acetate) (10 mol% vinyl acetate) (EVA) with palygorskite, montmorillonite or halloysite as pour point reducers in different types of crude oil: two paraffinic oils (°API = 26.4 and 28.8) and one oil without n-alkanes, which was doped with different wax concentrations (pour point of 56–58 °C). The performance of nanocomposites was evaluated by pour point (PP), microcalorimeter (μDSC), optical microscope and rheological measurements. The nanocomposites reduced PP of different oils, being more efficient than pure EVA since the nanocomposites reduced PP by up to 43.5 °C, whereas the EVA reduced PP by a maximum of 9 °C. In general, the additives modified the precipitated wax crystals, but they had difficulty acting in the oil with the highest n-alkane content. Nanocomposites reduced the wax appearance temperature of the oil with 24% w/w n-alkanes by approximately 12 °C. They also reduced the viscosity of the oil samples. Among the evaluated materials, EVA:palygorskite and EVA:halloysite nanocomposites were the most efficient pour point reducers.
Keywords: Nanocomposite; Polymer; Clay (mineral); Pour point depressant; Petroleum

Bipan Tudu, Hemanta Naskar, Barnali Ghatak, Sanjoy Banerjee, Milan Dhara, Sukanta Ghosh, Sk Babar Ali, Nityananda Das, Runu Banerjee Roy, Rajib Bandyopadhyay,
4.19 - Recent trends in polymer nanocomposites with molecular imprints and their electrochemical applications: An overview,
Editor(s): Saleem Hashmi,
Comprehensive Materials Processing (Second Edition),
Elsevier,
2024,
Pages 326-339,
ISBN 9780323960212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-323-96020-5.00200-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780323960205002004)
Abstract: Polymers are supposed to be the vital constituents of modern electronic devices. Their versatile forms like pristine, composite or nanocomposite are being used for several domestic and industrial applications with numerous unique potentials. Polymer Nano composites (PnCs) found to be exhibited wide theoretical interest and several practical applications in the different fields of science and technology. These PnCs possess not only the convenient process ability but also having exceptional functionalities. On the other hand, a novel artificial recognition technique viz. molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) is considered as a sensitive and selective sensor which is feasible to be designed. The MIP materials are made utilizing a target molecule and using functional monomers that got self-assembled and cross-linked to one another around the template analyte. By interaction among functional groups on the monomer and templates, the functional monomers are assembled around the template molecule, which are further polymerized to form an imprinted matrix. The interlaying technology of both the MIP and PnCs are found to be the key complement of each other in electrochemical sensing applications. PnCs and the imprinted polymer provide conductive filler networks within the polymer matrix and selective recognition features, respectively. The combined advancements of the both PnCs and MIPs make them suitable candidate in electrochemical sensing technology. Hence, the chapter introduces different application of PnC based MIP sensors in electrochemical applications.
Keywords: Agri-tech; Artificial recognition; Electrochemical sensor; Food-tech; Molecularly imprinted polymer; Pharmaceutical; Polymer nanocomposite; Spice

Yuanhao Luo, Ling Lin, Pingya Luo, Yongjun Guo, Shuixiang Xie, Meirong Wang, Guixia Xiong, Han Gu,
Polymer nanocomposite ADA@SM as a high-temperature filtrate reducer for water-based drilling fluids and its filtration loss mechanism,
Colloids and Surfaces A: Physicochemical and Engineering Aspects,
Volume 672,
2023,
131701,
ISSN 0927-7757,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfa.2023.131701.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0927775723007859)
Abstract: High temperatures degrade drilling fluid performance and endanger drilling safety when drilling deep and ultra-deep wells. The development of a new high-temperature drilling fluid additive to maintain drilling fluid performance in high-temperature environments is critical. A polymer nanocomposite (ADA@SM) was synthesized from the monomers styrene (St), methyl methacrylate (MMA), acrylamide (AM), 2-acrylamido-2-methyl-1-propanesulfonic acid (AMPS), and diallyldimethylammonium chloride (DMDAAC) through a free-radical copolymerization reaction. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR) were used to characterize the structure of ADA@SM, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used to characterize the microstructure of ADA@SM, indicating that it had a "star-net" structure. TGA analysis showed that the thermal decomposition temperature of ADA@SM was above 274 °C. The rheological and filtration properties of drilling fluids with ADA@SM were studied before and after aging at high temperatures (150–240 °C). The rheological model of the drilling fluid containing 2.5 wt% ADA@SM was found to be consistent with the Herschel-Buckley model. After aging at 220 °C, the filtration loss for API and HTHP was 8.4 mL and 29.8 mL, respectively. Using particle size analysis and zeta potential analysis, ADA@SM produced a drilling fluid with good particle size distribution and colloidal stability in high temperature environments. SEM analysis showed that ADA@SM adsorbed on the surface of the bentonite particles, which improved the compactness of the filter cake. The relative molecular weight (Mn) of ADA@SM decreased from 59671 to 5908 after degradation at high temperatures, and ADA@SM released polymer nanospheres, which effectively reduced the filtration loss of the drilling fluid.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposite; Water-based drilling fluid; Filtrate reducer; High-temperature resistance

M.P. Boranna, Parutagouda Shankaragouda Patil, Neelamma B. Gummagol, H.B. Ravikumar,
Positron lifetime and third-order nonlinear optical studies of P(St-co-MMA)/NiO polymer nanocomposites,
Optical Materials,
Volume 140,
2023,
113843,
ISSN 0925-3467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optmat.2023.113843.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925346723004159)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites of Poly(styrene-co-methylmethacrylate) (P(St-co-MMA))/Nickel oxide (NiO) with different NiO nanoparticles wt% (0.0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8 and 1.0) are prepared by solution casting technique. The UV–Vis and XRD results revealed decreased direct energy band gap, increased Urbach energy and decreased crystallinity with the increased NiO nanoparticles wt%. The SEM results show the agglomeration of nanoparticles for higher concentrations of NiO nanoparticles loading. The Z - scan studies show the increased nonlinear optical (NLO) parameters viz., nonlinear absorption coefficient (β), nonlinear refractive index (n2) and nonlinear susceptibility (χeff(3)) with increased NiO nanoparticles wt%. The free volume parameters viz., free volume (Vf) and fractional free volume (Fv) show increasing and decreasing trends with the NiO nanoparticles concentration respectively. The effect of free volume parameters on nonlinear optical parameters such as β, n2 and χeff(3) is brought out. The increased β, n2 and χeff(3) is due to the increased polarization by the NiO nanoparticles in P(St-co-MMA) polymer matrix. The decreased fractional free volume (Fv) with the increased NiO (wt%) indicates the increased packing density of polymeric chains of P(St-co-MMA) polymer matrix. The increased NLO parameters are attributed to the increased polarizability and packing density of polarizable groups in the P(St-co-MMA) polymer matrix.
Keywords: Positron lifetime; Optical energy band gap; Nonlinear absorption; Free volume; Crystallinity; Nonlinear refraction; Agglomeration

Junwei Wang, Qihui Sun, Jinyao Li, Yang Guo, Wei Tian, Yifan Liu, Baoshan Wu, Longjiang Deng, Nasir Mahmood, Xian Jian,
Polymer-based nanocomposites: Role of interface for effective microwave absorption,
Materials Today Physics,
Volume 31,
2023,
100981,
ISSN 2542-5293,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtphys.2023.100981.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2542529323000172)
Abstract: Polymer-based nanocomposites are playing a key role in advancing microwave absorption and electromagnetic interference shielding technology. Polymer nanocomposites with abundant interfaces are injecting new vitality into the advanced absorbers. Adjustable electrical conductivity, controllable complex permittivity, environmental stability, anti-corrosion, lightweight and facile synthesis process are other key advantages of this system. Therefore, identifying suitable materials to combine with polymers through surface engineering and types of interactions among the dissimilar components are of great importance to achieve strong microwave absorption and guide future trends. This mini-review presents the role of homojunction and heterojunction in polymer-based absorbers. It also discusses how complex heterogeneous and homogenous interfaces influence the corresponding microwave absorption. Then, the challenges with polymer-based absorbers which hinder their electromagnetic shielding properties along with the effective solutions to address these issues are highlighted. In the end, the review provides future direction and strategies to design polymer-based nanocomposites to mitigate microwave pollution at a large scale.
Keywords: Microwave absorption; Lossy materials; Polymers; Nanocomposites; Heterointerfaces

Refat El-Sheikhy, Abdulaziz Al-Khuraif, Mosleh Al-Shamrani,
Converting polymer-wastes to green nanocomposites in Saudi Arabia: Investigation of fracture parameters (KIc, KIIc, θc, σc) for quality and sustainability evaluation,
Vacuum,
Volume 217,
2023,
112513,
ISSN 0042-207X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vacuum.2023.112513.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0042207X23007108)
Abstract: The intrinsic fracture-parameters including fracture-envelope (KI-KII), fracture-direction (θc) and fracture-load (σc), are predicted experimentally at different crack inclination-angle (β) for each of pure-original polyethylene (HDPE, LDPE) and advanced green-nanocomposite CPNC made of (95%) recycled waste polyethylene (HDPE, LDPE) and (5%) montmorillonite MMT nanoclay NC. These fracture factors represent evaluation of material quality and sustainability. These fracture parameters are investigated experimentally and compared with characterization of microstructure, interfacial-bond, chemical composition, and crystallinity. These parameters are depending on material type, crack type, crack-location, crack-shape, crack-geometry, crack-orientation, crack-dimensions, and loading type. Nanocomposite called clay-based polymer nanocomposite CPNC is produced of recycled polymers with special mixing technique with (5%) surface modified natural nanoclay. Pre-cracked recycled-CPNC, HDPE and LDPE samples are tested with different crack-orientations of central cracks and edge cracks under far-field tension load. Characterizations of microstructure, bond and chemical composition are conducted by SEM and EDAX for investigating the differences between original and recycled materials. The results are compared to each other with detailed discussion showing good results of converting of contaminated waste-materials to valuable advanced green ecofriendly nanocomposite suitable for different fields like medical applications, dental biomaterials for orthodontics, dental-restoration for fracture under caries and occlusal stresses and other industrial applications.
Keywords: Fracture-envelope of mixed mode cracks (KI-KII); Fracture-angle (θc); Fracture-load (σc); Green ecofriendly nanocomposites; Recycling of polymers; Green natural nanoclay

ChengLin Han, Hongxing Zhao, Tianzhi Yang, Xueqing Liu, Mingchi Yu, Gong-Dong Wang,
Optimizing interlaminar toughening of carbon-based filler/polymer nanocomposites by machine learning,
Polymer Testing,
Volume 128,
2023,
108222,
ISSN 0142-9418,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymertesting.2023.108222.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142941823003021)
Abstract: Currently, most designs for interlayer toughening of carbon-based filler/polymer nanocomposites are highly dependent on experimental iterative trial and error, and there is no rational design framework. This work uses machine learning to build a fast and accurate predictive model and assess the extent to which key features affect performance, giving researchers ideas for designing new materials and greatly improving efficiency. A training database is built by first collecting the features of the domain that affect the interlaminar performance. A stacking model fusion of the three machine learning models was then performed to construct a highly accurate fast prediction model. Besides, the importance of key features is evaluated during model training using the Random Forest Algorithm (RFA). Finally, by predicting the performance of materials and analyzing the importance of characteristics to guide material preparation, the development cycle is shortened and costs are reduced.
Keywords: Nanocomposites; Fracture toughness; Computational modelling

Shuning Liu, Chenchen Liu, Zhongxiang Bai, Guo Lin, Xiaobo Liu,
Metal-organic frameworks mediated interface engineering of polymer nanocomposites for enhanced dielectric constant and low dielectric loss,
Surfaces and Interfaces,
Volume 36,
2023,
102586,
ISSN 2468-0230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2022.102586.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468023022008446)
Abstract: Interface modulation is a key issue for the incorporation of inorganic nanofillers into polymeric matrixes, especially in the applications of dielectric materials. Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) with special organic and inorganic characteristics represent enormous potential in the interface engineering of polymer-based nanocomposites with desirable dielectric performance. Herein, we report a novel strategy to synthesize graphene oxide nanosheets with UiO-66-NH2 MOF decoration (G@M) using an in-situ and ex-situ method, which are utilized as the nanofillers in the super-engineering polymeric matrix namely polyarylene ether nitrile (PEN). In-situ MOF decoration improves the compatibility between graphene oxide and PEN matrix, and the resulting G@M/PEN nanocomposite shows an enhanced dielectric constant of 7.94 and an ultra-low dielectric loss of 0.014 (1000 Hz) at a low filling content (4 wt%) with outstanding tensile strength (106 MPa) and high glass transition temperature (208°C). Besides, owing to the in-situ interface tailoring, the G@M/PEN nanocomposite exhibits a much higher energy storage capability, about 107% higher than that of conventional graphene oxide-incorporated nanocomposite. This research provides new insight into the interface design of polymer-based nanocomposites for dielectric applications.
Keywords: Metal-organic framework; Polyarylene ether nitrile; Graphene oxide; Dielectric properties; Thermal resistance

Alireza Moradi, Reza Ansari, Mohammad Kazem Hassanzadeh-Aghdam, Sung-Hwan Jang,
Thermomechanical behavior of carbon nanotube/graphene nanoplatelet-reinforced shape memory polymer nanocomposites: A micromechanics-based finite element approach,
European Journal of Mechanics - A/Solids,
Volume 107,
2024,
105360,
ISSN 0997-7538,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.euromechsol.2024.105360.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0997753824001402)
Abstract: Stimuli-responsive shape memory polymer (SMP) nanocomposites, characterized by their shape memory capability and customizable properties, have significantly expanded their range of applications when compared to pristine SMPs. This pioneering paper is centered on describing an efficient numerical approach for evaluating the thermomechanical behavior of ternary acrylate-based SMP nanocomposites containing carbon nanotube (CNT) and graphene nanoplatelet (GNP) hybrids. To this aim, a micromechanical procedure based on thermo-visco-hyperelastic constitutive model, which aids in avoiding employing intricate user-defined material subroutines, is developed through the finite element method (FEM). The parameters required for satisfying the governing equations of the rheological model, including thermal expansion and Prony series coefficients, plus Williams-Landel-Ferry equation and Neo-Hookean strain energy function parameters, are derived from accessible experiments to assign SMP properties. A Python-based script is implemented in a stochastic-iterative process to generate appropriate periodic representative volume elements (RVEs) with various microstructures. Thereupon, thermomechanical shape memory cycles in uniaxial tension are simulated by creating loading, cooling, unloading, and heating steps in the Abaqus solver. Following achieving satisfactory agreement between the presented scheme and experimental measurements, case studies are performed to reflect the influences of dispersion type, volume fraction, and geometry of carbonaceous nanofillers, as well as the contribution of nanofiller/matrix interphase region, upon stress-free/shape-recovery and fixed-strain/stress-recovery thermomechanical cycles.
Keywords: Smart nanocomposite; Shape memory polymer; Carbonaceous nanofillers; Finite element micromechanics model; Large deformation

Yongqiang Ming, Zhiping Zhou, Tongfan Hao, Yijing Nie,
Polymer Nanocomposites: Role of modified filler content and interfacial interaction on crystallization,
European Polymer Journal,
Volume 162,
2022,
110894,
ISSN 0014-3057,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eurpolymj.2021.110894.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014305721006285)
Abstract: The crystallization behavior of polymer nanocomposites is of great significance in scientific level and applications. In this work, the effects of modified filler contents and interfacial interactions on nucleation and crystallization were revealed by Monte Carlo simulation. The results show that the increase of filler content promotes the transformation of nucleation mode and significantly affects the crystallization rate of polymer nanocomposite system. When the modified filler contents in the system are too high, the chain mobility is greatly reduced due to the small spacing of fillers and the strong restriction of grafting points, which limits the diffusion and arrangement of segments to the nucleus and reduces the crystallization rate. By adjusting the interfacial strength between the matrix and modified fillers, it can be found that the nucleation rate of the system is determined by the changes of free energy barrier and diffusion activation energy under different interfacial interactions. In addition, for the polymer nanocomposite system with less fillers or strong interfacial interactions, it is more likely to form edge-on crystals. These results contribute to the design and preparation of high performance polymer nanocomposites.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Modified filler; Crystallization; Monte Carlo simulation

Tongkui Yue, Zhiyu Zhang, Sai Li, Hengheng Zhao, Pengwei Duan, Ganggang Zhang, Liqun Zhang, Jun Liu,
Designing and fabricating nanopolymer composites beyond traditional polymer nanocomposites toward fuel saving of automobile tires,
Nano Energy,
Volume 101,
2022,
107584,
ISSN 2211-2855,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2022.107584.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211285522006620)
Abstract: Polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) are widely used in automobile tire manufacturing industry. Concerning the long-standing energy crisis, designing and fabricating PNCs with both high strength and low energy consumption has gained numerous scientific interests. Inspired by nanoparticle-based supramolecular materials, the processed nanoparticles (NPs), as one of the synthetic monomers to build polymer chains, can essentially enhance the strength and stability of the filler network, thus achieving high strength and low energy consumption in the novel PNCs. Herein, in contrast to traditional filling methods, the novel PNCs were constructed by embedding nanoparticles into polymer chains through coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations. The structural, dynamic, mechanical and viscoelastic properties influenced by the content and size of the NPs are systematically explored. Compared to traditional polymer nanocomposites (tPNC), this novel PNCs exhibits a relatively higher glass transition temperature (Tg) at the same content of the NPs, attributed to the constraint of the NPs chemically bonded onto the chain backbone. By calculating the number of neighbor NPs and polymer beads around each NP, this novel PNCs possess a much better dispersion of NPs and a thicker interfacial polymer adsorbed layer than that of tPNC system. Interestingly, the formation of a zigzag-interlock structure with an intermediate strength, namely between the physical and chemical interaction, allows for a more prominent mechanical reinforcing efficiency than tPNC. Moreover, the NP size and the crosslink density play an important role in tailoring the mechanical properties. Finally, the dynamic mechanical properties of this novel PNCs, such as the loss factor and hysteresis loss, exhibit a much smaller energy dissipation than those of the tPNC, which is attributed to much lower friction between NPs-polymer brought by the more stable filler network. In general, our work confirms that this novel PNCs is an excellent candidate to exceed the traditional PNC by possessing a more significant nano-reinforcing effect and a much less dynamic hysteresis, opening a good avenue for the design and fabrication of next-generation elastomer nanocomposites tailored for green automobile tires.
Keywords: Polymer nanocomposites; Energy efficiency; Mechanical enhancement; Hysteresis loss; Molecular simulation

Eman F. Aboelfetoh, Moamen F. Rabea, Mohamed.Y. El-Sheikh, Ehab A. Okba,
In situ polymerization of acrylamide on magnetic SnFe2O4/CeO2 nanocomposite: A novel adsorbent for removing various dyes,
Journal of Molecular Structure,
Volume 1312, Part 1,
2024,
138566,
ISSN 0022-2860,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molstruc.2024.138566.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022286024010858)
Abstract: Environmental conservation requires effective, secure, and economical treatment options for dye-contaminated wastewater. The current study comprises a novel fabrication of tin ferrite/ceria/polyacrylamide magnetic and porous ternary nanocomposite. This occurs through crosslinking polymerization of acrylamide on the SnFe2O4/CeO2 binary nanocomposite. The SnFe2O4/CeO2/PAM nanocomposite was comprehensively characterized using FTIR, TGA, XRD, TEM, VSM, EDX, SEM and N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. The ternary nanocomposite's efficiency as a novel adsorbent for anionic (direct violet 4, DV4) and cationic (bismarck brown r, BBR) azo dyes was investigated. A range of variables were studied to optimize the effectiveness of eliminating both dyes. In an acidic medium, DV4 removal was more efficient, whereas BBR removal was higher in an alkaline environment. Non-linear regression was employed to analyze adsorption kinetics and isotherm models, using three statistical error functions to determine the best-fit models. Adsorption data for both dyes demonstrated a good conformity with pseudo-second-order and Freundlich isotherm models. The dyes' adsorption was both endothermic and spontaneous. The nanocomposite displayed notable performance throughout five reuses. Moreover, the nanocomposite shows good adsorption efficiency for various dyes (congo red, acid blue 40, methyl green, and crystal violet) as well as DV4 and BBR. Therefore, it emerges as a promising adsorbent for wastewater purification.
Keywords: Cross-linked polyacrylamide; Tin ferrite; Error analysis; Cerium dioxide; Direct violet 4 removal; Non-linear regression

Kabyashree Hazarika, Hiranya Ranjan Thakur, Jiten Chandra Dutta,
Fabrication and characterization of different polymer doped CNT nanocomposites for creatinine detection,
Materials Today: Proceedings,
2023,
,
ISSN 2214-7853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2023.01.032.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214785323000482)
Abstract: In this paper, conducting, and natural polymers like polyaniline, polypyrrole and chitosan are doped with carboxylic acid (COOH) functionalized multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) for the fabrication of bio-sensitive membrane of CNT based Bio-FET for label free and reliable detection of creatinine. The aim of this paper is to report a facile fabrication method comprising of chemical solution method which is cost effective, requires no sophisticated instrument and is therefore independent. Creatinine deiminase (CD) enzyme is immobilized on the developed bio-sensitive membrane by crosslinking technique. The physical characterization of the fabricated layer is performed by using X-ray Diffraction (XRD), Scanning electron Microscopy (SEM) and Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR) imaging technique. The electrochemical characterization of the fabricated layer is performed by Cyclic Voltammetry (CV). The respective bare polymer doped carbon nanocomposites and enzyme crosslinked polymer doped carbon nanocomposites are coated on ITO coated glass substrate with the help of spin coating technique and thereafter are used for electrochemical characterization. The XRD results illustrates the enforcement of crystalline behavior in the polymers and increase of electrical conductivity of the bio-sensitive membrane. The SEM results indicate uniform and compact crosslinking of CD with the respective polymers and COOH-MWCNTs composites. The FT-IR results describes the chemical composition and the bonding behavior of the enzyme with the respective polymers and the nanocomposites. The CV results illustrates a satisfactory electrochemical compatibility of the enzyme and the bare polymer nanocomposites. This describes the efficient bonding of the polymers and the enzyme on the large surface area of the nanocomposites. The obtained redox peaks justify the improvement of electrochemical conductivity of the enzyme and the polymers due to doping with COOH-MWCNT.
Keywords: Creatinine; COOH-MWCNT; Creatinine Deiminase; Bio-sensitive membrane; Immobilization

Amir Ali Khan, Ali Bahadar, Muhammad Hussain, Fida Ullah, Amir Ullah, Sufian Rasheed,
Analytical evaluation of polymeric CNTs/CuO nanocomposite electrode for the room temperature detection of volatile organic compounds (VOCs),
Results in Chemistry,
Volume 5,
2023,
100928,
ISSN 2211-7156,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rechem.2023.100928.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211715623001674)
Abstract: In this study, we report the synthesis of a polymeric composite electrode based on carbon nanotubes (CNTs) and copper oxide nanoparticles (CuO NPs) for the detection of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The CNTs were functionalized and opened using the reflux method, followed by filling with CuO NPs to prepare the CNTs/CuO nanocomposite. The prepared CuO NPs-functionalized CNTs were dispersed in polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) to fabricate the polymeric composite electrode. X-ray powder diffraction (PXRD) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were used to investigate the crystallographic and morphological characteristics of the prepared CNTs/CuO nanocomposite, which revealed spherical CuO NPs embedded in the carbon nanotubes. Cyclic voltammetry was used to evaluate the electrolytic activity of the prepared polymeric CNTs/CuO nanocomposite. In addition, the performance of the prepared polymeric CNTs/CuO nanocomposite was evaluated using a multimeter setup for the detection of various volatile organic compounds (VOCs) such as acetone, ethanol, and formaldehyde. The voltage generated at the surface of the polymeric CNTs/CuO nanocomposite electrode decreased over time due to the reduction of the VOC concentration at the surface of the electrode. Overall, this study highlights the potential of polymeric composite electrodes for the detection of VOCs and their cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency, and eco-friendliness.
Keywords: Nanocomposite; Carbon nanotubes (CNTs); Copper oxide nanoparticles (CuO NPs); Volatile organic compounds (VOCs); Electrochemical Sensing

Dorina Chipara, Alexandro Trevino, Karen S. Martirosyan, Mircea Chipara,
Interphase in polymer-based nanocomposites: Polyoctenamer – Single-walled carbon nanotubes,
Surfaces and Interfaces,
Volume 40,
2023,
103011,
ISSN 2468-0230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2023.103011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468023023003814)
Abstract: A detailed and critical analysis of the non-isothermal thermogravimetric analysis of polyoctenamer-single wall carbon nanotube, is presented. The thermogravimetric data were obtained under an inert atmosphere (nitrogen) on polyoctenamer- single wall carbon nanotube nanocomposites loaded by different amounts of nanofiller (up to 10 % wt. single wall carbon nanotube), at various heating rates ranging from 5 to 40 °C/minute. The research focuses on the identification of the polymer-nanofiller interphase, including the detailed dissemination between the interface and interphase. The manuscript aims at the information that can be extracted from the recorded thermograms as well as from the derivatives of the thermograms with respect to the temperature. The detailed analysis of the temperature at which x% of the mass is volatilized, TX%, and of the residual mass fraction at high temperatures (850 °C and 950 °C) provide qualitative support for the presence of interphase. The research demonstrated that the derivatives of the thermograms versus temperature have a better resolution than “standard” thermograms. The derivative of the thermograms provides qualitative information about the formation of an interphase. A model for the degradation of the nanocomposites is proposed by assuming that the dependence of the inflection temperature on the composition of the nanocomposite obeys a Fox-like dependence, where the bulk polymer and the polymer trapped within the interphase are considered as a blend of two miscible polymers.
Keywords: Thermogravimetric Analysis; Polymer-based nanocomposites; inflection temperature, the thickness of the interphase, polyoctenamer-single walled carbon nanotubes

Sophy Mariam Varghese, Visakh V. Mohan, Sruthi Suresh, E. Bhoje Gowd, R.B. Rakhi,
Synergistically modified Ti3C2Tx MXene conducting polymer nanocomposites as efficient electrode materials for supercapacitors,
Journal of Alloys and Compounds,
Volume 973,
2024,
172923,
ISSN 0925-8388,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.172923.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925838823042263)
Abstract: MXene-conducting polymers have attracted significant research attention as exceptional electrode materials for energy storage applications. Herein, we report the synthesis of titanium carbide MXene via exfoliation, succeeded by one-step oxidative polymerization and surface modification with polypyrrole (PPy) and polyaniline (PANI). Electrochemical characterizations conducted in a symmetric two-electrode assembly reveal that the MXene-PANI electrode supercapacitor demonstrates a specific capacitance of 430 F g−1, surpassing both MXene-PPy (305 F g−1) and pure MXene (105 F g−1) supercapacitors. Furthermore, the MXene-PANI symmetric supercapacitor demonstrates a specific energy of 38 Wh kg−1 at a specific power of 808 W kg−1. The MXene-PANI and MXene-PPy electrode materials exhibited a capacitance retention of 84% and 85% respectively, after 10,000 continuous GCD cycles. The study highlights the application of MXene-polymer nanocomposites as efficient electrode materials for supercapacitors.
Keywords: MXene; Polyaniline; Polypyrrole; Supercapacitors; Electrochemical performance
